# 1.4_Video_Selecting the subject and working out the layout

you might recall learning about client personas earlier in the course.

For the project, you have to choose one client persona to develop a home page for. 

But if you want to practice, you can build multiple web pages using the different html and CSS skills that you've learned in this video. 

You will learn how to approach and plan a web page layout so you can practice for your own project first. 


## visual layout

Let's start with the visual layout. 

The web page should have the company logo at the top of the page with a navigation menu underneath.

The main content of the page should be below the navigation menu. 

At the bottom of the page is the footer. 

### navigation menu 

The navigation menu requires four links to be laid out horizontally. 

One link must be to the homepage you are developing depending on the client persona you've chosen. 

The other links can be to product pages, contact forms or company information pages. 

### main content

The main content should feature a large banner that links to the client's current promotional offer below the promotional banner. 

There are three columns. 

Each column should contain an image followed by a heading and some text. 

Again, depending on the client you choose. 

These can contain offerings or information about the client. 

### footer

The footer is split into two columns. 

The left column will contain a small version of the client logo and the right column will contain copyright text. 

Now that you know what the visual requirements are. 

## structure

Let's examine how you can structure the html and CSS for this layout. 
让我们看看如何构建此布局的 html 和 CSS。

Remember that it's important to semantically structure your html document. 

So search engines and accessibility software can understand the semantics of the web page. 

So it's best to start by planning out the semantic structure. 

You should use 

- the header element for the logo, 
- the nav element for the navigation, 
- the main element for the main content 
- and the footer element for the footer of the page. 

Once you've set up your semantic html structure, the next step is to plan your grid layout for the main content and footer for these parts of the web page, you can use either a CSS grid or a flex box layout. 

It's important to plan your CSS rules for the different sized columns that are required. 

Remember, you'll need a full with column and 31 3rd columns for the main content. 

To simplify the main content. 

Consider splitting the content into two rows then to half with columns for the footer. 

One last note, it's important to plan your units of measurement when defining your CSS rules and properties. 

It will be easier to maintain and debug your CSS if your units are consistent throughout the code as you learned earlier in the course, choosing a unit such as M or rem for your C. S. S. 

At the beginning of the project and sticking to it will help you as you progress further. 

And that's the end of this video about planning a web page. 

1. First you consider the visual layout, 
2. then the html and CSS structure for the layout followed by the semantic structure 
3. and then the grid layout. 

In the next video, you'll learn how to start writing the html and CSS for the project.