Hello and welcome. 

Imagine you want to cook a dish you never tried before. 

You can try different ingredients, 

different cooking times, 

or you can just use a recipe found on the Internet. 

In a similar way as a developer, 

you can try to build your website from scratch 

or you can use code that other developers created. 

In this video, I'll illustrate how to include 

CSS and JavaScript libraries in your HTML file. 

I'm also going to explain what dependencies are, 

the purpose of a package manager and 

JavaScript handlers. Let's get started. 

By now, you know you 

write code in your application and that 

this code interacts with 

APIs provided by libraries and frameworks. 

Since you'll be deploying your application 

to a web server in the end, 

you must include these libraries and frameworks with it. 

If you do not include them, 

your application won't be able to call 

the API functions it needs to execute when you run it. 

That is why the libraries and 

frameworks are often referred to as dependencies. 

Your application depends on them. 

On the front end, you do this by referencing 

the JavaScript or CSS files in your HTML file. 

One popular library you can use to develop 

user interfaces is the Bootstrap library. 

You will learn more about Bootstrap in this course. 

But for now, let me demonstrate how 

a library such as Bootstrap can be included on a webpage. 

Start by opening your HTML file. 

Next, add the CSS library for 

Bootstrap in the head element using a link tag. 

The link tag includes an H ref 

attribute to link the CSS library I'm including. 

I also included a rail attribute to 

specify that the link is for a style sheet. 

Bootstrap also provides a JavaScript library 

that enables enhanced functionality, 

such as drop-downs and tooltips. 

You'll likely need those features during development. 

Let me demonstrate how to add 

the JavaScript library to your webpage. 

Open your previous file that 

already has the Bootstrap CSS. 

Next, add the JavaScript library for 

Bootstrap in the body element using a script element. 

I then add an SRC attribute to 

the script element to specify the link to the library. 

Let me add a Bootstrap button to the page to 

demonstrate how easy it is in the body, 

I add the button element. 

Then I add an attribute called 

type and the CSS class BTN. 

I also add the modifier 

btn dash primary, and a description. 

Click this button. This will add 

a button using Bootstrap's primary color, 

blue on the webpage. 

This is what the rendered version 

of the code will look like. 

You can now start using 

the additional Bootstrap functionality. 

This is quite a simple example. 

In day to day development, however, 

it can end up being a lot more complicated. 

For example, what happens if 

your dependency also depends 

on other libraries and frameworks? 

This is known as a dependency tree. 

A project could have hundreds 

of dependencies and its tree, 

it will take a very long time to download, 

setup, and configure all of them. 

How do you make sure you're using 

the same versions the rest of your team is using? 

This is where package managers come in. 

A package manager is a tool that 

automatically downloads and installs dependencies. 

We also refer to dependencies as packages. 

A package manager also provides 

the capability to publish your own packages. 

But let's not worry about that right now. 

For each dependency, you can specify a version of 

that dependency and the package manager 

will download it for you. 

If there is a dependency tree, 

the package manager takes care of that for you. 

It will automatically download all of 

the dependency tree so that you can 

use APIs without dependency issues. 

The most common package manager for front end development 

is the Node Package Manager or npm for sure. 

You will have an opportunity to explore 

using NPM in this program. 

Now that all your dependencies are downloaded, 

you need to include them in your HTML file. 

But adding all of them into an 

HTML file would take forever. 

This is where you will use a bundling tool. 

The purpose of a bundler is to 

automatically combine them into a single file. 

If you're bundle is significantly large, 

many bundles can split 

your dependencies into multiple bundles. 

There are many bundle is available 

such as Gulp and Webpack. 

We'll be exploring bundling in more depth later on. 

You now know how to include 

CSS and JavaScript libraries in your HTML file. 

You also know what a dependency is, 

what the purpose of a package manager is, 

and what JavaScript bundles are.