Boot trap includes a pre made set of UI elements and 

styles to help you build your website. 

They range from alert messages to navigation menus. 

These are called bootstrap components. 

In this video you will learn how to use bootstrap components. 

Little lemon have added a new fried calamari dish to the menu and 

they want to add it to their website. 

They also want to update the website to use bootstrap components. 

First, let's add the new dish. 

To do this in the menu column, I add a new h2 tag and 

inside it I add the name of the dish Fried Calamari. 

I didn't add a paragraph tag inside this tag, 

I list the ingredients, squid and buttermilk. 

Now I want to add an image of the fried calamari. 

So I used an image tag with its source attribute and 

the image file name calamari.jpeg. 

And I add the image dash fluids CSS class 

to ensure that the image scales to its parent columns width. 

Bootstrap comes with a badge component that I can use to highlight that 

the dish is new. 

Let's add that now. 

Next to Fried Calamari, Inside the h2 element, 

I add a span element and assign it a CSS class of badge.


Now I can set the background color of my badge by 

adding another class called bg-primary. 

The contextual class bg-primary will display the badge 

using bootstraps primary color which is blue. 

Inside the span I added text new. 

Next I'm going to improve the visuals by using the card component for each dish. 

With card elements I can style and accommodate different types of contents 

like title's subtitle body copy and images for the cards. 

Let's have them stack on mobile devices and tile side by side on desktop.


To do this, I add a row below 

the our menu h1 tag.


I then add a div element for 

each dish of the three dishes.


For each day of I applied a col-12 class for 

mobile devices and a col-Lg-6 

class for desktop devices. 

Inside each div of elements, 

I added narrative elements 

that uses the card CSS class 

by adding one and copying and 

pasting it inside other dudes.


Then move the code with the image 

tag of each dish to the card class.


Instead of using img-fluid I change each image to card- img-top.


This will improve its visual style within the card. 

I then add another day for each dish and give it the card-body css class.


This will contain the text content of the card. 

I then moved the header and paragraph of each dish into these card body elements.


Again, to improve the visual style, 

I add a card-title css class 

to the header of each dish.


In the paragraph elements I add a car- 

text css class for each description.


Let's preview in live preview.


Our menu has a much better layout now. 

Finally let's update the prices


Under the price column I add a table row or 

tr tags for the new dish.

I then add 2 td tags but from now on I will just refer to it as td. 

In the first row, I typed fried calamari, in the first td tag and 

in the second td tag, I typed the price of $12.


Now I will add an alert to inform our customers about the new dish so 

that they can try it out. 

To do this I add a div element with the alert css class.


I then add the alert-info css class to change the alert to blue. 

Now identify the function of the alert by adding 

a role attribute directly after the contextual css class. 

For its value I type alert. 

On the next line. 

I typed text that must be displayed on the alert. 

Try our new fried calamari.


Let's see how it looks in live preview. 

The website has a much better layout now, 

hopefully little lemon will have a lot more orders now. 

There are many components available in Bootstrap. 

Maybe there are some more you can use to improve your website