Websites have to work on a lot of things. 

Mobile phones, desktop apps, tablets. 

The idea behind responsive web design is 

building a product that works 

across a range of viewports. 

There's a lot of techniques to do 

this but the core problem 

is you have a product and it 

needs to work everywhere. How do you do that?

Play video starting at ::25 and follow transcript0:25

Hi, my name is Benedict Hobart. 

I am a front-end engineer at Meta. 

Open a website and then just change 

the width of the browser window 

and see what happens to our website. 

Good responsive website, 

you'll see maybe you've got 

a top tab bar that then collapses into a drop-down menu. 

That's responsive design. 

The problem to solve is to make your app 

work across a range of viewports. 

There's other considerations as 

well when you're building 

an app for different viewports, 

if you're building an app to work on a mobile device, 

you might put the action buttons 

towards the bottom of the screen, 

so you can hit it with your thumb versus having to 

use your index finger to hit 

the drop-down at the top right. 

It's about being very considered about how 

you place your functionality 

and what you think is important. 

It's about making things work as a first step. 

Then it's like how do you make things good? 

How do you take into account? 

The capabilities of the device you're building for 

and make it better 

than it would have been if you just made it work. 

People have changed the way that they make content from 

being 14 by nine 

whatever 10 viewport with 

people used to watch content on. 

They flipped it horizontally because that's personal. 

When you take a photo of something like that, 

it feels like you're there, it 

feels like you're talking to them. 

That's how you face-time your friends. 

It's good to be aware of how 

your products make people feel. 

That's the never-ending game 

of how people are using your products. 

You make something, and you 

have no idea how people are going to use it, 

but that's the fun part. 

Maintaining quality is hard. 

People have QA teams that they 

employ to make sure that 

apps are functional for a certain width. 

People might write end-to-end tests to make 

sure that things keep functioning as they could be. 

It's hard to know what's going to change 

in the technology until it happens. 

Then you're like, okay, I need to redesign my website 

because iPhone just came 

out with a new screen resolution. 

Be aware of when your website breaks. 

The goal isn't to make it work for 

a phone and a desktop and a TV. 

The goal is to just make it always work. 

If you make it work across 

a width from here all the way down to here, 

you're probably in a good spot. 

Instead of focusing on making that device work properly, 

try to make your interface forward and walk across 

a range of dimensions versus just ticking the boxes.