Have you ever opened a website 

with a lot of texts and thought, 

wow, there are two very different reasons 

you might have that reaction. 

Texts or words can make 

a website engaging and interesting, 

but they can also make you look dull 

and cause users to lose attention. 

With the help of CSS, you can make the 

most of texts by adding interesting effects. 

First, I will explain how to use 

the text-overflow property 

that determines how overflowing content 

is displayed on your website. 

The first example sets 

the text-overflow property with the value ellipsis. 

Let's take note of two CSS properties for the texts class, 

white-space and text-overflow. 

The white-space CSS property controls 

how white-space inside an element is handled. 

The white-space property in this code 

has a value of no wrap. 

The text-overflow property specifies 

what to do with the content if it overflows its container. 

It has several possible values 

such as hidden to hide the content, 

or scroll to add a scroll bar. 

It is important to note that 

the text-overflow property here is set to ellipsis. 

An ellipsis is three dots 

that represent the texts that is clipped.

Play video starting at :1:13 and follow transcript1:13

If I hover over the overflowing text 

which is present inside, 

the hidden text is displayed. 

As soon as I move the cursor away from the block, 

the text is again substituted by the ellipsis. 

This is very similar to the second example, 

which sets the value of text-overflow to clip.

Play video starting at :1:33 and follow transcript1:33

In this example, the additional content is 

truncated to fit within the limits of the box.

Play video starting at :1:41 and follow transcript1:41

If I hover over with the cursor, 

the clipped text is displayed.

Play video starting at :1:53 and follow transcript1:53

In the third example, 

I demonstrate how to create vertical text. 

In the output, the words 12-15 items are 

placed vertically within the otherwise horizontal texts. 

I do this by putting those words inside 

a separate p tag with class named vert. 

Then in the CSS code, 

I set the writing mode property to be vertical-rl.

Play video starting at :2:24 and follow transcript2:24

The next example demonstrates the word wrap property. 

Word wrap determines how the words in 

a paragraph break up and wrap onto the next slide. 

This property has different values such as break word, 

normal, initial, and a few others. 

In this example, I use the value break word. 

As a result, the words illustration 

and property are both broken up across multiple lines.

Play video starting at :2:52 and follow transcript2:52

In the next two examples, 

I will add text effects using simple CSS code.

Play video starting at :3: and follow transcript3:00

In this example, I use a property called text shadow, 

which has a shorthand with four values. 

The first value is the x-coordinate, 

which represents the horizontal shadow. 

The second is the y-coordinate, 

which represents the vertical shadow. 

The third is the blur radius, 

and the fourth is the shadow color.

Play video starting at :3:26 and follow transcript3:26

This next example explores an extension of the same idea. 

My HTML code has two heading tags, 

each with the class name glow. 

In the corresponding CSS code 

I've added the text shadow effects for that class. 

I can use the output to determine 

whether I need to adjust the color effects 

until I'm happy with it.

Play video starting at :3:54 and follow transcript3:54

That's all my examples. 

In this video, you learned how to add effects 

to your text using a few simple rules in CSS.