As you may have experienced when 

using different apps in your everyday life, 

first impressions matter, whether you are using 

an app to make a photo collage or to order food online. 

If you are using a new app and it 

doesn't behave the way you expect it to, 

it makes a bad first impression on you. 

It may very well leave you feeling frustrated and 

seeking alternatives that can deliver what you need. 

To combat scenarios like this, 

developers employ rigorous user interface or 

UI testing strategies to 

ensure optimal customer satisfaction. 

UI testing is a complex area with 

many techniques and strategies used by developers. 

The strategies you will use will 

often be determined by business priority, 

customer requirements, and project timelines. 

In this video, you will learn about 

some UI testing strategies 

in specific cross-device testing. 

You will also discover practical examples of 

how to do cross-device testing in the browser. 

There are many UI testing strategies and 

an even wider range of tools available to implement them. 

The most common strategies used during development are; 

automated user acceptance testing, 

cross-device testing, and visual regression testing. 

You can learn more about the other types 

of testing in future courses. 

For now, let's just focus on cross-device testing. 

Cross-device testing involves 

the manual or automated use of 

different devices to test 

the layout and behavior of an application. 

The goal of this testing strategy is to ensure 

user experience consistency between different devices. 

Think of all the different mobile devices 

and their screen sizes and internal hardware, 

there are a lot of possibilities. 

Many companies use the most common devices for 

testing as less common devices could have 

a low return on investment versus the cost 

of maintaining and running the tests on those devices. 

If you have an old phone stashed in a drawer somewhere, 

chances are that modern apps won't 

work on the devices as well as they're supposed to. 

Now that you've learned about the 

different types of UI testing, 

you are ready to learn how to use 

Web Developer Tools to 

manually perform cross-device testing. 

In my web browser, I've opened one of 

my previously developed webpages 

for the little lemon restaurant. 

I've opened the browser developer tools by 

right-clicking the page and selecting Inspect Element. 

An alternative way to open the tools is to press F12. 

To begin cross-device testing the webpage, 

I can click the toggle device toolbar button. 

On the top of the browser, 

I can now change 

the browser view to simulate different devices. 

If I click on the "Edit button", 

I can select additional devices to add to the toolbar. 

However, it is important to note that this will 

only simulate the screen size of the device, 

not the actual hardware. 

Luckily, the browser also as tools available to 

closely simulate certain network and hardware conditions. 

In the performance tab of the developer tools, 

I can use the network option to 

simulate different mobile network speeds. 

Additionally, I can use the CPU option to slow down 

the web browser as if it was 

running on a slow or older device. 

This will allow me to view how 

my webpage performs in different environments. 

Of course, this is all simulated. 

There are many tools available to perform testing on 

virtual mobile software and also unreal mobile hardware. 

Many businesses have in-house labs with 

many mobile devices to perform 

more real-world environment testing. 

If you're interested in learning more, 

review the links included in 

the additional reading material. 

You should now be able to identify 

the main UI testing strategies used to 

ensure customer satisfaction and what's more. 

You also learned about 

the web developer tools you can 

use to perform cross-device testing.