# 1.2_Video_How-is-React-used-in-the-real-world

My team uses React and we use a lot of new and experimental features that the React team is building.

Facebook.com is like a demonstration of all the new and cool features that React engineers are working on. 

When we rewrote the website, we were actually using a lot of unreleased features and experimenting with a lot of new things that the React team was building, which was really cool to use at first.

My name is Katie and I'm a Software Engineer on the React Apps team at Meta, and we work on building a variety of new features for Facebook.com. 

There are plenty of React based apps that you've probably used before. Facebook and Instagram are two examples. But Netflix, Airbnb, New York Times, and a variety of other companies also use React for their websites as well, so you've likely encountered it before. 

These websites that tend to have really interactive UIs are more likely to be using something like React. 

Facebook.com had become really not performing and not modern looking after the 10 or so years that we have been using it, we had squeezed all of the performance wins that we could out of Facebook.com. 
在我们使用 Facebook.com 大约 10 年之后，我们已经变得性能不佳、不够现代，我们已经榨干了 Facebook.com 所能获得的所有性能优势。

Really the only option at that point was to rewrite it on a different stack that was going to be a lot faster and a lot easier to build on. 

Basically, there was a need for having a really fast and responsive UI and React fills all of those needs. 

So this was like a shift in thinking differently about how we build on web. 

We actually rewrote our website a couple of years ago to be completely React and so every engineer who's writing for Facebook.com at Meta is pretty much using React. 

I was there for like the middle of it to finally launching it, so it was cool that a little bit of it was already written and we were getting prepared to show it to real users. 

I think 40 engineers on our team were all working on building out this MVP of the redesigned Facebook.com. 

We would work with a variety of product teams to get them to also rewrite their product on our new stack as well. 

It was a really big effort and it was also a really big risk, mot all the teams that we talked to thought that we could ship this new version of Facebook.com, so we really had to prove that it was faster. 

It obviously looked more modern, but we had to prove that it would really help these products teams deliver the best version of their product that they could on web. 

React is open sourced, meaning that anyone can contribute to it, and those engineers are working full-time on React. But we also have developers who aren't at Meta who are also contributing to React, and that means that there's a really strong community around React. 

A lot of people are really excited to build on it and make improvements to it. If you ever have any questions or you have an idea about a certain feature or optimization or improvement, there's really a great opportunity to actually contribute to the React library itself. 

There's a React team at Meta, and this team is comprised of engineers who are working on React full-time. But there's also a group of developers outside of Meta who are contributing to React as well. 

I think the open source part of it is really cool just because there's such a community around React, it's constantly being updated and maintained. 

There's always going to be someone available to answer questions or to update documentation, it's very current.

If you're using React for the first time, definitely take a look at our documentation. There are a lot of conversations being had about React online, and we actually have a React conference every year where we talk about new features with React and you can just connect with a lot of React developers. 

There are plenty of opportunities to get involved in the React community, and I think it makes building with React even more rewarding if you connect with the community as well