Grid areas are a way to group one or more grid cells. 
The grid template area is an extension of this concept where you can give names to these grid areas. 
网格模板区域是此概念的扩展，您可以在其中为这些网格区域命名。
Once you have the names defined, you can address these new grid area items by their names and configure them accordingly. 

The property grid-template-areas is usually placed inside the body tag or any container where the grid needs to be placed, the same way that you would define the rules for the grid. The main difference is, in case of grid-template-areas the values present will be the different names. 

## Process

The process isn’t prescriptive but these are the steps in general:

- Define the grid using display property 
- Set the height and width of the grid 
- Set the grid-template-areas with the appropriate name identifiers
- Add the appropriate sizes for the rows inside the grid using grid-template-rows property 
- Add the appropriate sizes for the columns inside the grid using grid-template-columns property 


But how exactly do you use these names and where do they come from? The names that you use inside the grid template areas are the HTML tags that you have used. Or, where you need to get more specific, you designate a class name to these tags. Once the names are assigned, you define the properties for each class the same way that you define them conventionally. Let's examine an example.


```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="gridta.css">
</head>
<body>
  <header> Header </header>
  <nav class="nav-bar"> Navigation </nav>
  <main> Main area </main>
  <footer> Footer </footer>
</body>
```


```css
body {
  display: grid;
  height: 200px;
  grid-template-areas: "head head"
"nav main"
"footer footer";
  grid-template-rows: 30px 1fr 30px;
  grid-template-columns: 150px 1fr;
}

header {
  grid-area: head;
  background-color: lightsalmon;
}
.nav-bar {
  grid-area: nav;
  background-color: lightblue;
}

main {
  grid-area: main;
  background-color: lightyellow;
}
footer {
  grid-area: footer;
  background-color: firebrick;
}
```


Though there are five sets of rules, logically the CSS code is divided into two sections. The first is where you define the rules for the grid inside the body selector. And second is where you allocate specific rules for the different grid areas. The way these grid areas are distributed is according to how you have defined the names inside the grid-template-areas property. In the example above the relevant code is:
虽然有五套规则，但逻辑上CSS代码分为两部分。 第一个是在主体选择器内定义网格规则的地方。 其次是为不同的网格区域分配特定的规则。 这些网格区域的分布方式取决于您在 grid-template-areas 属性中定义名称的方式。 在上面的例子中，相关代码是：
```css
grid-template-areas: "head head"

"nav main"

"footer footer";
```


The ‘head’ is written twice to imply two columns and the rest of the content follows the usual convention. The number of rows will be the number of ‘pairs of quotes’ you have used which in this case is three. Namely  “head head”, “nav main” and “footer footer”. Once you know the number of rows and columns, the values for those will be set by grid-template-rows and grid-template-columns. Since these are three and two respectively here, you need to add that many values. The height simply gives the overall value of the height for the grid.
“head”写了两次，暗示有两栏，其余内容遵循通常的惯例。 
行数将是您使用的“引号对”的数量，在本例中为三。 
即“head head”、“nav main”和“footer footer”。 
一旦知道行数和列数，这些值将由 grid-template-rows 和 grid-template-columns 设置。 
由于这里分别是三个和两个，因此您需要添加那么多值。 高度只是给出网格高度的总体值。

Note that the number of times you wrote “header” did not have to be two. You could write more of those and if you align the rest of the grid-names correctly, the height and width of the grid-areas will be distributed proportionately.
请注意，您写入“标题”的次数不必是两次。 您可以编写更多这些内容，如果正确对齐其余网格名称，网格区域的高度和宽度将按比例分配。

Let’s return to the example. If you keep all other properties the same but you change the grid-template-areas as follows:

```css
grid-template-areas: "head head head"

"nav main main"

"footer footer footer";
```

The output will remain the same as you have fixed the value of the third row to “30px”. The example is simple for the sake of clarity, but if you had used relative values, you would’ve seen an observable change in the comparable sizes of nav and main grid-areas.

Grid-areas are convenient when you have a clear schematic of what you want in a grid. It’s also easier to configure individual areas if you can address them by their names. Let’s say you are designing a resume on your website, you will be able to name the different areas such as ‘Bio’, ‘Education’, ‘Work experience’ and so on. And it’s easier to use these labels when you are defining the rules. Creating a block diagram using pen and paper before starting to work on a grid is always a good idea.