# handling errors

in this video, you're going to learn about how you can handle errors in CSS. The first thing that you should know is that CSS does not handle errors in the same way that most programming languages do. The code does not break or stop executing. Instead, it just passes through the code and simply ignores the lines that it does not understand. In fact it can also ignore the next property. After the mistake that is inside the same selector in V. S code, I opened the html and CSS files that we used to demonstrate the transform and transition properties in an earlier video. Let me open the output to remind you what the CSS styling does.
Play video starting at ::47 and follow transcript0:47
Now I'm going to tweak the CSS code to create a mistake. Let's remove a semi colon after the background color properties of the boxes.


Visual studio code provides some basic information about mistakes to get that information. I click on view and then problems.


An error message displays in the problem panel that says missed semi colon. But this error does not prevent the execution of the rest of the code. When I run the code, the boxes still display, but only their borders are visible and they have square corners. In other words, the CSS before the error is executed, giving the boxes their size and placing them in a grid, still run. Then the background color properties as well as the border radius properties in the line below are skipped. After that, the rest of the styling is still applied, such as the border properties as well as the hover pseudo class properties.


Let's put back the semi colon and create another error when I removed the semi colon after the background. Color properties of the hover class. The hover effect still works but the color does not change to light coral. The opacity properties in the next line are also not executed, but the transition property still works.


Now. I put back the semi colon to correct the code but sometimes you need to validate the code for more than just syntax errors. Such as checking against specific coding conventions and best practices to resolve these kinds of issues. Developers use a tool called a letter. A letter is a tool that applies a set of rules to check the syntax and find any problematic patterns or inefficiencies in the code. There are a number of winter tools and websites available. Alternatively, you can also install a third party tool using the command line or extensions in the S code. You can find more about these online tools and how to install winter extensions in the additional resources at the end of the lesson. Next I will demonstrate how to let your CSS code using a visual studio code extension called style. And there are plenty of Starlink rules that you can use for this demonstration. I'm using the alpha value notation rule and the color no hex rule. The alpha value notation rule requires using a specific notation for alpha values. Whereas the color no hex rule disallows the usage of hex color notation. These are just examples and are not necessarily best practices. You can select your own set of lint rules according to your own best practices.


Now that the style and extension is running. Other errors are showing in the problems panel. The alpha value notation lint rule states that 50% should be written as 0.5. Notice that it also indicates on which line and at which character I can find the issue. In line 14 the value of the opacity property is set to 50%. I change it to 0.5 and now the error notification disappears.


The color No hex lint rule states an unexpected hex color was found on line eight. To update the hex code to a valid notation such as H S L. I can click on the color box in the CSS code, A color panel pops up. I toggle between the different color notations by clicking at the top of the color panel until it is set to H S. L styling is just one example of the many developer tools in visual studio code that you can use to find lint errors. Many browsers also have testing tools such as the inspector compute tools that allow you to modify your CSS code. And verify the changes directly in the browser