# 3.1_Video_What-is-useReducer-and-how-it-differs-from-useState

By now, you should have a fairly good understanding of the useState hook and be able to practically apply it to your solutions.

However, the useState hook does have its limitations.

For example, the useState hook may become cumbersome if you have complex state logic that involves multiple sub-values or when the next state depends on the previous one.

In these situations they useReducer hook can provide a much better alternative.

In this video, you'll learn more about use reducer and how it differs from useState.

You can think of the useReducer as a superpower usestate.

They useState hook starts with an initial state, but they useReducer hook gets a reducer function in addition to the initial state.

This is beneficial because the reducer functions second argument is the action object.

This object has multiple type values, and based on each of these types values, you can invoke the dispatch function to perform a specific operation.

Now, say the little lemon restaurant is growing in popularity and demand.

As a result, keeping track of expenses is becoming an issue.

Far, they have been calculating the income and outgoings manually as they sell meals to their customers and buy ingredients to replenish the stock.

Little lemon is looking for a solution to this using React in order to keep track of expenses in their app and reduce the burden on their staff.

Because using the useState hook would make the solution to this unnecessarily extensive.

This is a perfect opportunity to implement the useReducer hook in order to simply keep track of the cost of buying ingredients and the income generated from selling the finished meals to the customers.

Now, let's explore how to implement the useReducer your hook in a code example to reinforce your understanding.

Imagine I am coating the expenses tracking application for little lemon discussed earlier, using React and use reducer.

With this app, I can track two actions.

The cost of buying ingredients to prepare the meals and the little lemon restaurant in the income from selling the finished meals to the customers and the restaurant.

For the sake of simplicity, I've only added two actions.

Buy ingredients and sell meals.

The reducer function takes in the previous state and an action and returns the new state.

The action type determines the specific action of the reducer.

Actions can have any form.

By convention, it's common to pass objects with a type property identifying the action.

You should include the minimal necessary information that the reducer needs to compute the next state.

You can find out more about extracting state logic into a reducer in the additional readings at the end of this lesson.

Instead of using setState like the useState hook, you use the dispatch method of the useReducer hook.

This accepts an object literal with a single property called type set to a matching action datatype whose behavior is defined inside the reducer function.

As I'm already serving this app in the browser.

Let me demonstrate how it works.

When I press the shopping for veggies button, the amount in the wallet decreases by ten.

When I press the server meal to the customer, the amount in the wallet increases by ten.

With useReducer, you can define more types as many as you need.

This way, you can easily work with more complex logic in your React apps.

Something that might be too difficult to rationalize when using useState.

To explore this in practice, let's add another action type.

I'll name it celebrity visit.

This action should be triggered when a celebrity visits the restaurant, which brings in $5,000 to the restaurant when it happens.

To make this work, I've added another action type to the reducer function, and then another button to trigger it.

I'll save my changes and preview the updated app in the browser.

There.

It's all working as intended.

Clicking the celebrity visit button increases the wallet amount by 5,000 and it's as simple as that.

Now the little lemon restaurant will be able to keep track of their expenses so that they have a clear view of how much profit they're making from their business.

In this video, you have learned about the useReducer hook, how it differs from the useState hook, and why it can be a beneficial and more efficient solution in certain circumstances.