# 3.3_Video_Animate and test your prototype

I think a fun fact about interactions is just how often you encounter them when you're using an app most of the time without realizing them.

Micro interactions are meant to be very simple and clear so you might not even notice that you're exiting out of a dialogue or you're seeing confirmation that you did something on your app.

Micro interactions are small interactions that you'll encounter many times when you're using an app.

They serve a single purpose and usually it's to bring more understanding to a flow that you might be going through but it's also to bring a more emotional and human aspect to your app as well.

Micro interactions make it clear to a user that an action they just took was successful or it triggers them to complete another action or go to another step in a flow.

They really bring a level of understanding to what the user is doing.

One example of a micro interaction on facebook dot com is when you hover over the like button and you see a little bar of all the reactions you can take on a post.

This micro interaction is really clear in what it's supposed to do.

The user is supposed to tap one of the reactions so that they can quickly react to someone's post.

It also brings a level of delight to the app as well.

If you ever hover over the like button, you'll notice that the interactions are animated, it kind of just brings them more fun and human aspect to using facebook as well.

Micro interactions benefit the user because they give them a really clear understanding of where they are in the app and like if the system is in a good place, for example, if you're filling out a form and put in your name for let's say a price, you might see an error pop up on the form and it's really clear to you that your action hasn't been submitted successfully and that you need to actually change the form input.

If we didn't have a micro interaction there, you might not know whether you actually like purchased that ticket or completed that flow successfully.

So micro interactions are really important for giving almost a status to the user of.

Did you do this successfully? What should you do next? And giving feedback to the user.

So a lot of micro interactions are actually conceptualized in the design process.

Usually designers will design a certain flow and to end and have a different design for each screen of a flow.

What should happen when you tap a certain button and so on.

Engineers build out these micro interactions and sometimes we might realize there's a gap in some sort of interaction when you press a button, nothing happens.

So in the testing phase we kind of realize where we need to add more micro interactions or when a micro interaction is super annoying and not really beneficial to the user as well.

Since joining meta.

I've seen how many micro interactions are used all over our products.

Many I've used subconsciously and when I'm building a product now, I'm really thinking about the things that happen when someone goes through a flow successfully or what hap happens when there's an error that they might encounter, luckily here at meta we have a bunch of reusable components that we can use for micro interactions.

An example is a toast and a toast is something that appears in like the bottom corner of your screen when you complete inaction.

So if I were to try to create a facebook event and I do so successfully, A little toast with like a green check mark would appear in the corner if something happens, say your internet goes out and we're not able to create the facebook event.

A little toast will appear in the corner with a warning sign, so it's really clear to the user what's happened and it brings a level of understanding to their experience as well.

I would say my biggest piece of advice is don't overthink micro interactions.

Sometimes people will learn how to do a really fancy animation and think that they have to include it in every single micro interaction on the site.

I think the biggest thing about micro interactions is that they should be very clear and understandable and most of the times that means simple as well.

You don't want to include two too many micro interactions and you don't want to make the micro interactions that you do include very fancy and distracting for the user as well.

Usually people don't think of micro interactions when they're trying to design a product, but it's really important that you think about them in the design process and also in the testing process, I use the product a bunch of times.

I don't even notice when I'm missing a little con for Formacion toast or a little error dialog.

So it's really important that you think about these details and that you're putting your product in front of people so they can also see these gaps.

And you can close them as well.

Best of luck learning more about micro interactions and just know that they will bring your app to a high quality bar and make sure that users really understand the flows that they're going through on your new product or idea.