# 3.6_Video_Module summary_Starting the project


In this module you have come a long way in addressing the issues users of the Little Lemon website have been facing when trying to reserve a table.

You began with an introduction to the course content and the syllabus, and had an opportunity to meet your peers.

You then moved on to setting up your project to ensure you use the right tools for developing effective and efficient code, and ultimately the successful development of your web app.

So you have set up your coding environment, react.js, a JavaScript library used in web development to build interactive elements on websites.

You now have the correct version of node.js and npm installed on your machine and can now work with an operating system that allows you to interact with node.js and build the Little Lemon project freely using the create-react-app npm package.

You have an IDE or a code editor installed and set up to work with react.

Git is installed on your machine and your GitHub account is set up allowing you to add a remote repository for your code.

The principles of UX and UI have been revisited, and your UX UI process has been established.

The scope and the project's purpose have been defined by gathering the user's objectives and goals.

You have begun the UX UI process using Figma, a highly scalable design tool based on vectors.

It's browser based architecture is clever enough to save your work as you go, and even continue working if your Internet connection is briefly lost.

You design the project wireframes using Figma which clarify the reserve a table function on the Little Lemon website.

During this lesson usability was pushed to the forefront and your page layouts were showcased.

The website's functionality and layout as well as creative and branding aspects were addressed one at a time, allowing the owners and the Little Lemon website users to provide early feedback, saving you time in the long run.

Components have been created in Figma, elements you were able to reuse across your design, helping you to create and manage consistency in your proposed solution for reserving a table on the Little Lemon website.

You also fleshed out your wireframes using Little Lemons style guide, enhancing them with brand color, adding images, buttons, text and making them interactive.

Since you UX is an iterative process based on user and client feedback, you may also have had to iterate at this stage.

In this process, your ideas are constantly refined into something approaching a final design solution.

Having set up your coding environment and a set of designs for the project created, you're in a fantastic position to begin coding the project.

Well done.
