# 1.1_Video_Setting up a semantic HTML document

Welcome to Module 2 of this course, Project Foundations.

In this lesson entitled Semantic Structure, you'll revise the techniques and technologies related to properly organizing the structure of your capstone project, continuing your work on the reserve a table Web App for Little Lemon.

From the vantage point of this lesson, this means that you'll need to brush up on your HTML.

Specifically, you'll be focusing on semantic HTML, a more modern HTML5 syntax that makes webpages convey more meaning, allowing people, screen readers, and search engines to better understand a site's markup.

The first exercise of this lesson will deal with properly setting up your HTML document.

You will subsequently be quizzed on your progress regarding the semantic HTML.

You may be wondering why this is important.

Well, the point of these lesson items is to ensure that you properly format your HTML structure so that it's in line with a **proper HTML5 semantics**.

You'll be reminded that using the div element everywhere is not a best practice, and that you should focus on using the many semantic HTML5 tags that are available today instead.

These tags which can be used to find the various web page sections include but are not limited to the nav element, the header element, the footer element, the main element, the aside element, and the article element.

You'll also be reacquainted with the history of HTML, the difference between HTML4 and HTML5, and why HTML5 spec has such a focus on semantic tags.

You'll revisit the need to have a more expressive syntax to help signal intent for both people and machines, including search engine bots, crawling countless HTML pages online.

After you've set up a semantic HTML document, you'll need to shift your focus onto working with meta tags and setting up Open Graph protocol.

To assist you with this part of the capstone project, you will revisit what you learned on the subject in the HTML and CSS in-depth course.

You'll then be tasked with completing two readiness checks, one for completing the meta tags in the Open Graph protocol settings, and the other one related to tracking your progress with Git.

You will complete this lesson with a quiz and a reading linking you to additional related resources and useful reading materials to further reinforce your knowledge related to semantic HTML, meta tags and Open Graph tags.

Now, let's get going.