# 2.1_Video_Styling elements

In this lesson, you'll revisit the topic of styling web pages and web apps in order to apply the little lemon style guide and layout designs created earlier in the course.

To begin with, you'll explore working with CSS in isolation without focusing on react.

After that, you'll work with CSS.

From the perspective of react, you may recall that CSS has been around since the late 1990s.

This means that there have been various ways of laying out websites.

Let's explore them briefly.

It all started off with table-based layouts, which are now an outdated way to build layouts.

After that in the early two thousand's, another technique became popular floats.

As a CSS property, a float is intended to remove HTML element from the normal document flow.

In other words, when you float an element, it no longer obeys the normal document flow.

Floats were popular for quite some time, however, because they were not intended for building web layouts, proper layout syntax was still needed in CSS.

With the consensus that something better was needed in the early 2010s, there were a few attempts at introducing the CSS flexible layout module specification or flex box layout.

Which is a one dimensional layout technique used to arrange items in rows or columns.

If you'd like to read up more on flex box layouts, you can consult the additional resources for this lesson.

However, it's worth noting this initial attempt at the flex box layout in the CSS specification was not entirely successful due to constantly shifting specifications and inconsistent and spotty support across browsers.

Finally, in the second half of the 2010s decade, flex box saw a new specification and wide adoption with the CSS grid specification following soon after it.

The CSS grid layout technique really took off somewhere around 2018 with the CSS grid layout module being the part of the CSS spec whose purpose is to build web layouts.

The reason is simple, it took a while for the browsers to catch up with the CSS grid spec and for the older browsers that were not built to support CSS grid to lose most of their market share.

So after modern browsers caught up with the CSS grid and older browsers that didn't support it became obsolete, CSS grid was widely adopted.

There are various benefits to using both CSS flex box and CSS grid.

And in this lesson, you'll revisit the pros and cons of using each.

You should not underestimate the role and place of CSS flex box.

And it's important to keep in mind that CSS grid is not a replacement for CSS flex box, it's good if you know either of them, but it's best if you know both.

Another reason to be aware of the various layout techniques out there is to be able to make informed decisions about layout choices.

In their day to day work, developers are very often faced with having to decide whether a piece of code is good enough or if it needs changing.

A lot of that decision making process comes with experience.

Still having a general idea about modern CSS layout techniques and where they should be used is important for a well rounded front end developer.

Indeed, the more knowledge you have on this topic, the better you'll be at choosing the right approach and determining whether the existing code in any project you work on is up to modern standards.

Furthermore, you'll be able to determine the best tool for the job.

All that being said, the focus of this lesson will mainly be on building CSS layouts using CSS grid as it's the most comprehensive and versatile tool in the modern CSS layout toolbox.

Time to get started.