# 3.4_Video_Module summary: Project foundations

You've completed module two, great work.

 In this module, you revisited several concepts related to semantic structure, styling and responsiveness and adding components.

 Which ultimately enabled you to set up a responsive website, use React components to create multiple views and design and style a responsive UI.

 This will assist you in your design and development of the Little Lemon Reserve a Table aspect of the website.

 In the first lesson of this module, you revisited how to set up a semantic HTML document.

 Another important topic covered in this section included meta tags and open graph protocol.

 One practical example of their importance is sharing links to your web apps pages on social media sites.

 Without meta tags and open graph protocol tags that are properly set up, you might end up with your shared links not showing pictures in various social media sites chat windows.

 Alternatively, you may end up sharing another image from your website rather than the one that's relevant to the link you've shared.

 Open graph protocol helps with sorting out pesky issues like these.

 In the second lesson of this module, you revisited CSS styling.

 Specifically, you had the chance to revisit CSS grid, and how it relates to responsiveness and website layouts.

 CSS grid is very powerful.

 It allows you to build practically any kind of website layout.

 Although it does sometimes come with some tricky syntax, just like any other technology related to web development, the more you practice something like CSS grid, the better you will get at it.

 Ultimately, this lesson was an opportunity to further practice the knowledge you've gained from some of the previous courses in this specialization.

 In the third lesson of this module, you started adding components for the little Lemon Restaurants web app.

 Components are the cornerstone of both React and modern web development in general.

 This means, understanding the ins and outs of how components work in React is a crucial piece of knowledge for you to have.

 That's why you completed a lesson entirely dedicated to this skill, revisiting the basics of components in React and putting your knowledge into practice.

 Implementing components in React while making sure that your web app looks polished and is styled properly ties in well with the content covered in the previous module.

 Where you set up the project and did some planning around the app itself, keeping in mind all the UX UI considerations.

 In this module, you combined components and UX UI with some styling and CSS grid based layouts.

 Now that the project foundations are covered, you're ready to move on.

 In the next module, you'll code some specific interactivity to enable the visitors to the Little Lemon website to reserve tables in accordance with the number of their guests and other related user needs.

