Exercise: Adding unit tests
===========================

**Overview**
------------

In this exercise, you will write two unit tests that you can use to check that your web app is working correctly. With regards to writing tests and the related syntax, you may find it useful to recap the following lesson items in the **Advanced React** course:

*   [Why React Testing library](https://www.coursera.org/learn/advanced-react/lecture/hEwy6/why-react-testing-library)
*   [Writing the first test for your form](https://www.coursera.org/learn/advanced-react/lecture/IUGpz/writing-the-first-test-for-your-form)


**Scenario**
------------

Testing code is a key step of the app development process. 
In this exercise, you’ll practice writing and implementing unit tests for components and state using React Testing Library to verify that the individual functionalities within your Little Lemon web app work as expected.

**Instructions**
----------------

### **Step 1: Test for some static text being rendered in the BookingForm component**
**步骤 1：测试 BookingForm 组件中呈现的一些静态文本**

*   Using your mockups, pick a part of the BookingForm component that has some static text, such as a heading or label.
* 使用您的mockups，选择 BookingForm 组件中包含一些静态文本（例如标题或标签）的部分。
*   In preparation for coding a test of this static test, review the following starting code for a test, based on an example in the [Writing the first test for your form](https://www.coursera.org/learn/advanced-react/lecture/IUGpz/writing-the-first-test-for-your-form) lesson referenced earlier:
    

```js
import { render, screen } from "@testing-library/react";

import BookingForm from './BookingForm';

test('Renders the BookingForm heading', () => {

    render(<BookingForm />);

    const headingElement = screen.getByText("Book Now");

    expect(headingElement).toBeInTheDocument();

})
```

*   Keeping in mind the above example, code a test for the static text being rendered in the BookingForm component, using code like this:
* 牢记上面的示例，使用如下代码对 BookingForm 组件中呈现的静态文本进行测试：
```js
screen.getByText("BookingForm");
```


**Note:** You will need to adjust the code based on what you've decided your Bookings component should render.

### **Step 2: Test the updateTimes and initializeTimes functions**

**步骤 2：测试 updateTimes 和initializeTimes 函数**

The next step is to validate the behavior of the updateTimes and initializeTimes reducer functions.
下一步是验证 updateTimes 和initializeTimes 减速器函数的行为。
*   Write a unit test for the initializeTimes function to validate that it returns the correct expected value.
* 为initializeTimes 函数编写一个单元测试，以验证它返回正确的预期值。
    

*   Write a unit test for the updateTimes function to validate that it returns the same value that is provided in the state. This unit test is important as it will be updated later when the logic of changing the available times based on the selected date is implemented.
* 为 updateTimes 函数编写一个单元测试，以验证它返回的值是否与状态中提供的值相同。 此单元测试很重要，因为稍后当实现基于所选日期更改可用时间的逻辑时，它将进行更新。

**Conclusion**
--------------

In this exercise, you explored two examples of unit tests that can be used to check that your web app works correctly.  In the event that the tests produce errors or unexpected outcomes, you’ll have a better idea of where exactly you need to apply a fix.
