You probably know that 

freight trains are an important means for moving cargo. 

But have you ever thought about 

the system that keeps things running 

smoothly as changes are made at every stop? 

Carriages are typically set in a specific sequence, 

and each carriage may carry different items or materials. 

Other carriages can also be added or 

removed without disrupting the rest of the order. 

Much like a freight train, 

JavaScript has a piece of functionality that allows you 

to store and rearrange sequenced collections of items. 

This is called an array. 

In this video, I'll guide you through how to 

build an array and access its contents. 

I'll also demonstrate how JavaScript stores 

the contents of the array and indexes its values. 

Let's say that you want to emulate 

a toy freight train using JavaScript. 

On this train, each carriage has a number painted on 

its site and is presented in sequence, starting from 0. 

Using JavaScript, 

you'll assign some cargo to each carriage. 

For the first one, let's input 

var carriage0 equals wheat. 

Great. Now when you inspect the contents of carriage 0, 

you'll get back the word wheat. 

You can use the same approach to model your entire train. 

Let's say you do just that and end 

up with five variables of different values. 

You've just built a train with five carriages, 

each holding different cargo. 

Now let's make things interesting and 

introduce a second train. 

This one only has two carriages with 

the number 0 and 1 painted on the sides. 

Seems pretty simple, right? 

Well, you can't use the variable names 

carriage0 and carriage1 because they're already taken. 

You could use more descriptive names, 

such as train2carriage0 and 

a train2carriage1 but that feels a bit wordy. 

Another problem is that you need to signal that 

these variables are a collection belonging Train 2. 

But when written this way, 

JavaScript doesn't understand that. 

Luckily, we can fix this. 

To make JavaScript understand that we will group 

a sequence of variables in a collection, we use arrays. 

You can build an array using the array literal syntax, 

which is an opening square bracket 

followed by a closing one. 

The array is currently empty, 

but JavaScript now understands that 

we would provide a collection of items. 

Let's assign that collection to the Train 1 variable. 

Finally, let's add carriages to the train 1 

array by typing in 

the item names with each separated by a comma. 

Now we have a train. 

But what happened to the carriage numbers? Not to worry. 

Behind the scenes, JavaScript gives each item a number 

starting from 0 that 

corresponds to its place in the sequence. 

You can then use these numbers to access each carriage. 

For example, typing train1 followed by 0, 

encased in brackets will 

access the value inside carriage 0, 

which is wheat in this case. 

To summarize, arrays help us 

achieve several things in JavaScript. 

Arrays signal that the assigned values 

all belong to a group. 

These values are ordered in a sequence and each one 

can be accessed through 

its index number in that sequence. 

In this video, you learned how to 

build an array in JavaScript. 

You also learned how 

JavaScript sequences array items using an index value.