In programming, if you have 

groups of data that you would like to relate, 

you can assign them to something known as an object. 

In this video, I'll help you to 

understand why we use objects in JavaScript. 

I'll also demonstrate how to build 

objects using dot notation, 

as well as by specifying comma delimited key-value pairs. 

Let's say that you are using JavaScript to build 

a game where the objective is 

to build your own cookie selling business. 

Your game is turn-based and 

uses tiles for characters to move, 

trade, and build their company. 

Your first task is to build a store manager character. 

You need to set certain traits, 

so let's call them with JavaScript variables. 

We'll set some numbers for the movement range, 

social skills, street smarts, and help. 

There. You've created a store manager, 

but there are a few improvements 

that you could make in your code. 

One issue is the long length of the variable names. 

Another is that your code does not explain to JavaScript 

that these variables are related 

and all describe the same character. 

This is where objects come in. 

Using objects, we can 

resolve these pain points by shortening 

our variable names and getting JavaScript to 

understand that all those variables are related. 

Let's start by declaring 

the variable store manager to which you assign 

an opening and a closing curly brace 

This creates an empty object literal. 

Next, instead of declaring 

individual variables for the traits, 

you can add a dot operator to each one, 

right after the words store manager. 

Now, when you inspect the store manager object, 

it recognizes these as traits of the store manager. 

Here you have built a store manager object 

using dot notation. 

Each trait is a property of the object. 

Objects can be described as collections of 

related properties where each property 

is represented as a key value pair. 

This means that what is normally 

a variable name becomes a property key 

and what is normally 

a variable's value becomes 

the property value of the object. 

Objects can also be built by listing 

the key value pairs inside of the object literal, 

which specifies them as comma delimited properties. 

To demonstrate, let's build a new character object. 

First, I declare the object name 

using var and then the object, 

for example, assistant manager. 

Then I simply input the properties and values in-between 

curly braces with each property 

followed by a colon and its value. 

Next, I separate each key value pair by a comma. 

Lastly, I finish the declaration 

using a closed curly bracket. 

That's it. I created an object and 

assigned some values to its properties. 

After an object is built, 

you can still update 

the object by adding new properties to it. 

This can also be done with dot notation. 

For the store manager object, 

you can add another property called 

next achievement by using dot notation. 

As before, you do this by placing 

a dot operator between the object name and the property. 

Then for the assistant manager object, 

you can add a property with the same name 

using dot notation, and that's it. 

Now your objects have 

new properties added to the previous ones. 

In this video, you've learned why objects are 

valuable tools in JavaScript coding and 

how to build them using dot notation and by 

specifying comma delimited key value pairs. 

Perhaps you can apply this knowledge 

towards creating the next great gain.