In this video, you'll learn how to use the random and 

seal methods of the math object in JavaScript. 

The math object is really useful when using some of its built in methods, 

one of which is the random method. 

For example, 

this method allows you to generate a decimal number between 0 and 0.99. 

So, let's explore how the random method works in practice. 

One way you can work with the math dot random method, 

is to save its result in a variable. 

Notice I have created a variable named decimal and 

assign its value to the math dot random method. 

I can now log the value to the console, but 

please note the limited range of numbers that will be returned. 

If you want to output a number larger than one, you must multiply the variable by 10. 

And I can do this with the multiplication operator using the asterisk symbol. 

When I click on the run button, the output shows two numbers. 

The first one is a random decimal, and 

the second one is the decimal multiplied by 10. 

So, this is an example of how you can extend the range of the math random method 

to meet your needs. 

Okay, let me switch tabs now and 

learn about another built in method of the math object. 

The Ceil method. 

This is used to round up any decimal number to the nearest integer. 

Let's pass several different decimals through this method and 

inspect the output. 

Notice that I have some code pasted into this file. 

And online 4, I've created a variable named rounded and 

assigned it to the math dot ceil method. 

Inside the parentheses, I have placed the value 0.0001. 

I've logged this variable to the console. 

When I run my code notice that a value of one is output. 

This is because the seal method can only round upwards. 

Just to confirm that behavior, we can change the decimal. 

When I set it to 0.5, I get the same outcome. 

I change it to 0.99 and as expected, 1 again. 

Okay, let's move on to working with some larger numbers. 

Let me in comment line seven and notice that 1.01 returns a value of 2. 

When the value is 1.5, 2 is also of the output. 

Finally, if I run the seal method on the value 2.99 I end up with 3. 

So, now you understand how both the random and seal methods work. 

Let me switch tabs again and next build some code that will combine the two to 

return a random integer between 0 and 10. 

The first step is to create a variable and 

assign it the value of the math dot random method multiplied by 10. 

I need to pass this variable through the ceil method to ensure that an integer 

instead of a decimal value is created. 

So, I declare the variable rounded and assign it the value of the math dot ceil 

method containing the decimal variable inside the parentheses. 

Finally, I use the console dot log method to output the variable rounded. 

If I run the code, notice that a value between 0 and 10 is output to the console. 

Just to confirm this works, I'll rerun the code and 

once again I get the expected results. 

In this video, you have learned how to use the random and 

seal methods of the math object in JavaScript. 

Can you think of editing creative uses for these? 

Why not give them a try in your own code?

(Required)

English

​

Help Us Translate