When two JavaScript developers 

discuss a subject related to work, 

sometimes you might hear 

the word iterable being mentioned. 

But what exactly does iterable mean? 

Well, in JavaScript an iterable is 

any datatype that can be iterated 

over using a for of loop. 

Some of the data types you can iterate 

over are arrays and strings. 

In this video, you will learn about 

the array characteristics of strings, 

and you will also explore 

further string manipulation 

using the concatenation operator. 

In the world of JavaScript, 

it can often be said that strings behave 

like arrays as strings are array-like. 

For example, you can run a for loop over an array of 

letters and output the result 

using the console.log method. 

Additionally, you can also run a for loop over a string. 

For example, loop over the string A, 

B, C to output the letters individually. 

Let me demonstrate this now with some code examples. 

In the file I have opened in my console, 

I have a variable veggies, 

which has an array with three strings. 

Each string holds the name of a vegetable, 

specifically onion, parsley, and carrot. 

I've typed a console log for veggies.length, 

which will return the number of array items. 

I also have console logs for the first and second item of 

the array using the indexes zero and one respectively. 

Finally, I have an example of a for 

loop that sets the counter of i to zero. 

The exit condition for this loop is 

that the comparison of i is less than 

veggies length returns false and i 

plus plus is the value to increment on each loop. 

Inside the for loop, 

I'm console logging the veggies at the index of i. 

When I run this code, 

I get a three to represent the array length. 

Onion from index 0, 

parsley from index 1, 

and then finally onion, 

parsley and carrot as a result of the 

for loop outputting all the items in the array. 

Now, let's clear 

the console and move on to the next file. 

Here I'll explore how strings can be iterated over. 

In this file, I have 

a variable named greeting with a string value of howdy, 

along with console logs for the string length, 

and the characters at indexes zero and one. 

Again, I have a for loop that is 

structurally the same as the previous example. 

Running this code gives us five for 

the string length H and O for 

the zero and one indexes and then each of 

the characters of the full string in 

sequence as an output of the loop. 

Despite the similar behavior, 

strings are not arrays. 

To examine this more closely, 

let's move on to the next example. 

Let me clear the output first. 

In this code, I have the greet 

variable that stores a string 

hello and a user variable that stores a string Lisa. 

Then I run a console log with 

the string greet and the pop method, 

which as you know, 

removes items from an array. 

There are two other lines of code, 

but don't worry about them now, 

I'll cover them shortly. 

When I try to run this code, 

I get an error that says type 

error greet.pop is not a function. 

This tells me that I can't run 

all the array methods on strings. 

Now, let's run the two other lines of code. 

On the first one, I console log the variable greet, 

the plus operator, and the variable user. 

On the next line, I console log 

the variable greet and 

concat method with the variable user. 

The concat method accepts whatever value I 

want to concat or join with the greet variable. 

In this case, both lines of code will work. 

They both console log Hello Lisa. 

I can confirm that the plus operator here, 

when used on strings, 

acts as a concatenation operator, 

meaning it join strings together. 

I also have a method named concat that I can use on 

a string to add values to whatever 

string the concat method was running.