You've reached the end of 

this module on the building blocks of a program. 

In this module, you've discovered how to 

work with arrays, objects, and functions. 

You've also discovered how to 

prevent errors in your code. 

It's now time to recap 

the key topics you learned and skills that you gained. 

You began the module with 

an introduction to arrays, objects, and functions. 

Now that you've completed this lesson, 

you can explain the purpose of 

functions and describe their benefits. 

Outline the process for building 

an array and accessing its contents. 

You now understand the array characteristics 

and concatenation operators of strings. 

You can also build and call 

functions, create custom objects, 

explain how math objects work 

and interact with arrays and objects. 

During this module, you also 

undertook a series of exercises in 

which you demonstrated your ability to 

utilize functions to solve simple problems, 

add strings to arrays and add properties to objects. 

You then moved on to the next lesson, 

in which you explored the concept of error prevention. 

During this lesson, you discovered how to 

recognize the differences between bugs and errors. 

Demonstrate try-catch blocks, 

and explain the concepts of undefined, 

null, and empty string values. 

You also completed several readings in which you learned 

how to recognize common types of errors in JavaScript, 

including syntax, logical, and run-time, 

and engage in defensive programming. 

You should now be familiar with arrays, objects, 

and functions and you should also have 

developed your skills in error prevention. 

Great work. You're making good progress on 

your journey to becoming a JavaScript developer.