In this video, you'll learn about the var, let, and const variables and 

the different rules that they are bound to. 

Let's start with the var keyword. 

I've typed some example code that is currently commented out but 

we'll go through it one point at a time. 

A variable declared with the var keyword can be accessed before initialization as 

long as the variable is eventually initialized somewhere in our code. 

To confirm that, let's try to console log a variable that hasn't been declared or 

initialized. 

I type console.log(user) and click the Run button. 

This returns reference error. 

User is not defined which is probably expected. 

However, suppose I use the var keyword to declare the variable user 

as my last line of code and rerun the code. 

Notice that undefined is output but no error. 

This means that the JavaScript engine continues to run. 

Let me clear my window here. 

And another thing to know about the var keyword is that we can declare and 

redeclare the same var variable without errors. 

Let me in comment lines 9-13 in my code to demonstrate. 

Notice that each line uses the var keyword to repeatedly declare the user variable 

and assigns it to a different string value Mary, Joanna, and finally, Mark. 

I'll comment out line 15. 

When I run my code, it outputs the first value undefined and 

then the value of the latest reassignment, in this case the string Mark. 

Let's move on to the let keyword. 

A key difference is that you cannot access a let variable before declaring it. 

For example, in lines 4 and 

5 suppose I run a console log on the user variable as our first line. 

In that case, I get the reference error cannot access user before initialization. 

What we can do however, is declare an unassigned variable with let. 

Running a console log by uncommenting lines 8 and 9 works without problems and 

returns undefined. 

However, once you declare a variable threat, you cannot redeclare it. 

Trying to do so by uncommenting line 12 will produce the syntax error, 

identifier user has already been declared. 

While you cannot redeclare a let variable, you can reassign it. 

For example, notice lines 8 and 15, 

initially it is set to undefined and then to the string value of Anna. 

Now if I run my code, 

notice that undefined is output first followed by the string Anna. 

Finally, let me switch tabs again to demonstrate 

the const keyword which is the strictest. 

A const variable must be initialized. 

For example, on lines 4 and 5, 

you get the syntax error missing initializer in const declaration. 

Next, let's comment out lines 4 and 5 and uncomment lines 8 and 9. 

As you can see, you can access a const variable before initialization or 

else you'll get a reference here. 

Next uncommon line 9 as well as line 12. 

A const variable can't be re declared as it throws the type error assignment to 

constant variable. 

Okay, and that's it for 

this video comparing variable declaration using var, let and const. 

It might seem confusing at the beginning to know which type to choose. 

Try to remember it like this. 

The Var keyword is the most lenient, while the Const keyword is the strictest. 

The best choice and use, usually depends on whether or 

not you will be reassigning values. 

In modern JavaScript, I'd advise you to pick either let or 

const based on whether they will be reassigned or not. 

Why not give it a try in your own practice code?