In the real world, inheriting something means acquiring possession, 

condition our trade from past generations. 

In this video you will learn that inheritance also exists in JavaScript and 

the inheritance model revolves around something called the prototype. 

You may also be familiar with the concept of a prototype which is often 

referred to as an original model from which other forms are developed. 

In JavaScript, the prototype is an object that can hold properties to be 

shared by multiple other objects. 

And this is the basis of how inheritance works in JavaScript. 

This is why it's sometimes said that JavaScript implements a prototype of 

inheritance model. 

Let's explore this further now, 

with some code examples to demonstrate inheritance and how to build a prototype. 

Consider the following object. 

I'm setting the var bird to an object that has three properties. 

Each set to the boolean value of true. 

The properties are has wings can fly and has feathers. 

Using the readily available object create, I can construct new objects. 

For example, I've set the eagle1 variable to a call that takes the bird object and 

passes it to the object .create method. 

I can console log the contents of the eagle1 object now. 

Let's run the code and notice an empty object logged to the console. 

However, since I used object to create to instantiate the eagle1 object. 

I also have access to all the properties of the bird object. 

So I canceled log eagle1 has wings and pass eagle1.has wings. 

And I also console log eagle1 can fly and pass eagle1.can fly. 

And finally eagle1 has feathers passing it eagle1.has feathers. 

Let's read from the code once again notice eagle1 has wings true, 

eagle1 can fly true and eagle1 has feathers true. 

Our output to the console with the object creates syntax. 

I can build as many objects as I want and 

they will all have the bird objects as their prototype. 

Here, notice that I built an eagle2 object and 

I've used the bird object as a prototype. 

Because I ran the object .create method on it and 

I save everything to the eagle2 variable. 

It's important to understand that the eagle2 object 

also has access to the property stored on the bird object as its prototype. 

Let's run this code to confirm and 

indeed notice that eagle2 has wings true is output to the console. 

I can even add different objects with different behaviors. 

For example, I can add a penguin1 object. 

I do this by declaring a penguin1 variable and 

assigning the result of the object .create method to it. 

Penguins are flightless birds so I want to set the can fly property to false. 

Thankfully, this is a relatively straightforward process because JavaScript 

starts from the object itself when looking for properties to work with. 

Then if it can't find it on the object, it looks up to its prototype. 

It's important to remember that it doesn't look further if it finds the property on 

the immediate object. 

This makes for a simple mechanism for overriding inherited properties. 

So let's implement this now. 

First I set that can fly property on the penguin1 object to false. 

And now I can cancel log that penguin1 object. 

Notice the output to the console after running the code is that 

penguin1 is an object with a can fly property set to false. 

Additionally, I can still access all the properties of the prototype. 

So accessing that has feathers and can fly properties of penguin1 will 

return the values that are stored on the prototype when I run the code. 

However, the can fly property is now set on the penguin1 object itself, 

so it overrides the can fly property on the prototype. 

This override only affects the penguin1 object, 

it doesn't change my prototype or other eagle objects. 

In this video, you learned about inheritance in JavaScript, although it is 

possible to build inheritance using the object create method. 

It's probably better to use class syntax for more complex objects and inheritance. 

Although under the hood, this syntax still works with prototypes. 

It makes sense to use classes as they improve developer experience in 

more complex scenarios.