Have you ever needed to apply the formatting of text in a word processor 

from one portion of text to another. 

In essence you are copying the properties from some text that is already 

formatted and applying them to another piece of text that you want to format. 

In a similar way as with text, 

JavaScript objects can have properties that define their characteristics. 

In this video, you will learn how to D structure, objects and 

arrays and also how to use the D structuring syntax, 

to extract new variables from objects and arrays. 

To illustrate D structuring, imagine that an object or an array is 

like a project folder that you have on your computer with several files in it. 

D structuring something out of an object or array, in this case your project folder 

is like copying that item from your folder on to another location. 

The original item still exists in your project folder. 

I just made a copy of the original item but 

this copy is completely independent of the original item. 

Now let's explore an example with an existing built in math object to 

D Structure the value of phi from it.

Play video starting at :1:12 and follow transcript1:12

Let's start by using the LET keyword and 

surround the uppercase Pie in curly brackets equals math because I 

already know that the pie property exists on the math object. 

I make a copy of it and I save the new object in a separate variable. 

I name Pie.

Play video starting at :1:31 and follow transcript1:31

Note that I can only destruction something that already exists on 

an object using faulty spelling, including lower case won't work and 

will return an undefined value If I type let open curly bracket small 

case pi close curly bracket equals math pi returns as undefined. 

This is because there isn't a lowercase pi property on the math object. 

So when I try to destroy culture it, I get the value of undefined for 

the lower case pi variable. 

The next step is to confirm that all caps pi variable has the identical value and 

data type as math dot pi by using the triple equal strict comparison operator. 

This will return a value of true to prove that the D structured property and 

the original property are in no way connected. 

I update the value of the pie variable to be one. 

By Typing Pi equals one.

Play video starting at :2:28 and follow transcript2:28

I can now compare all caps pie and math dot pi again by typing pie, 

triple equal sign, math dot pi, thus getting back the boolean value of false. 

It's clear that these two are no longer the same. 

The only reason why this worked is because the original property on the object and 

the D structured value are not connected in any way.

Play video starting at :2:54 and follow transcript2:54

In other words, there's no connection between the d structured variable and 

the source property on the given object. 

In this video, you covered how to de structure objects and erase and also how 

to use the D structuring syntax to extract new variables from objects and arrays