In this video, I'll help you understand the difference 

between for and loops and for of loops, 

when applied to objects in JavaScript. 

At first, this code may appear complex, 

but you'll find that it only involves 

concepts that you've dealt with before. 

Let's begin by breaking down what I have. 

I have a concept to an object 

and assign to a variable named car. 

This object has three properties, engine, 

steering and speed, which are given the values true, 

true, and slow respectively. 

I also have a cost assigned to the variable sports car, 

and I've used Object.create, 

so that inherits the properties of the car variable. 

Then I set the speed property of the sports car 

to fast and save it to the sports car variable. 

I've also added a console log to display the string, 

the sports car object, 

followed by the properties of the sports car object. 

Next, I have two for loops. 

The first one is a for-in loop written to 

log the properties of the sports car object. 

This is typed as for, 

followed by properties and sports car in parentheses. 

Inside of curly braces is a console log for prop, 

so it displays the properties of the sports car. 

Before and after the foreign loop code, 

I've written console logs to print 

some comments which will be 

addressed after I run my code. 

My second for loop uses 

the object keys method on my sports car object, 

which should iterate over that object. 

This is typed as for, 

followed by prop of objects, 

dot keys, sports car inside of parentheses. 

Inside of the curly braces is 

a console log for prop plus a colon 

in double-quotes and sports car 

with prop enclosed in square brackets. 

I've also console logged another comma after this code. 

When I run this code, 

I get the output. 

The sports car object is speed fast. 

It also displays a comment I had in 

the code for in is unreliable. 

Let's explore why. 

From the for-in loop, 

the console log values might surprise us. 

It loops over the property in the sports car object, 

but the output includes the properties on 

the sports car's prototype too. 

Instead of just a speed property, 

I also looped over the engine and steering 

properties which exist on 

the prototype of the sports car object, 

not on the sports car object itself. 

In fact, as the common state, 

for in loops are unreliable in this scenario because 

they iterate over not only the specified object, 

but also its prototype. 

That's why I used a thinking emoji in my comment with 

a string iterating over objects and its prototype. 

Now, let's examine what came from the second for loop, 

which is a for of loop. 

Note that our output, the comment I had in 

the code for of is reliable. 

I've gotten back speed fast, or in other words, 

the property and value that I've 

assigned to the sports car object. 

Just as I have stated in the comment in my code. 

This is because a for of loop only iterates over 

the object's own properties and 

does not count the prototype at all. 

Hopefully, you are able to differentiate between 

the for in and the for of types of loops. 

Let's run a simplified version of 

the same code without the comments. 

Also show my other file. 

This time around my car object only has 

an undrawn property then I'm declaring 

the sports car variable and I'm setting 

the car object as the sports car prototype. 

I'm also setting the speed of the sports car as fast. 

Finally, I'm console 

logging the sports car object and looping 

over prop and sports car and 

props of object keys and sports car. 

In summary, the two loops are simplified. 

I'm only console logging a thinking emoji and the props 

value for the first loop, the foreign loop. 

I'm only console logging a bull's eye emoji and 

the provenance value in the for of loop. 

That is the second loop in my code. 

When I run the code again, 

the result is much simpler. 

First, I confirm that the sports car object only 

has one single property speed, which is fast. 

Then the for in loop displays speed and engine, 

because engine belongs to the prototype of 

the sports car object and not 

the sports car object itself. 

Finally, the for of loop outputs 

looping over only the sports car object properties, 

which in this case is only the property fast. 

The emojis from my code up here alongside 

these properties and help us 

to understand what they mean. 

Just to sum it up, the speed and 

engine properties are from the foreign loop 

because it draws from the prototype of 

the sports car object as well as the object itself. 

The speed fast property, however, 

comes from the for of loop, 

since that iterates over 

the sports car objects property only. 

In this video, you learn that when you run on 

objects in JavaScript for in loops, 

iterate over the properties of 

the object and its prototype. 

While for of loops do this 

only for the objects' properties.