The spread operator is another of 

the many great new editions that came to 

the JavaScript language in its ES6 update. 

It is the shortest and simplest method to copy 

the properties of an object onto a newly created object. 

Think of the spread operator as 

a magical multi-purpose tool that can 

spread out array items and join objects together. 

In this video, you will explore what 

the spread operator is and how to use it. 

Note that the spread operator 

is characterized by three dots. 

To illustrate where the spread operator becomes useful, 

let's first build an array and 

then call the items with a basic function. 

Using the variable keyword let, 

I create an array of the top three places to visit on 

a holiday to Rome and I call it top3. 

Then I include the Colosseum, Trevi Fountain, 

and the Vatican City 

as the elements of my top three array. 

Now I write a function that 

lists these three attractions. 

To keep it simple, I just log it into the console, 

I create a function and I name it, 

showItinerary with three arguments, 

place1, place2, place3. 

Now I console log the three places to visit by 

typing console.log and then the string Visit, 

and the first argument, place1. 

Next, I console log 

the other two arguments by first using the strings, 

then visit, and the argument place2. 

Then the string finish with a visit to, 

and the third argument place3. 

Then when I run the function 

showItinerary it should run through all three places. 

Now, let's try to run 

the showItinerary function with 

the elements in the top3 array. 

I write the function name, showItinerary, 

and each array element starting with top3, 

open square bracket zero, 

which is the first element in the array, 

and close square bracket. 

Then I do the same for 

the other array elements one and two. 

But what if I extended my function 

to have seven places that I want to visit? 

Let's disregard what 

the showItinerary function definition may show and 

imagine that I have made 

the necessary updates so that 

the function will handle seven arguments. 

I have now built an entirely new array 

of the top seven destinations, 

and I've saved it in a variable named top7. 

Now I call the showItinerary function 

and passing this function, 

the seven arguments again start with zero as 

in top7 and zero within square brackets. 

Then the array again, top7 

and number one within square brackets, 

and so on until we get to 

the last top seven array element, 

which is top7 and number 6 within square brackets. 

While this code will work, 

it seems a bit impractical 

the spread operator simplifies things. Let's try it now. 

I type the showItinerary function, then open parenthesis, 

three dots, top7, 

close parenthesis, semicolon, that's it. 

I use the spread operator by placing it in front 

of an array which is passed 

to the showItinerary function. 

The advantage of this approach is 

that you don't have to list 

each individual member of 

the array that you want to pass to your function. 

The syntax is clear, 

concise, and easy to type. 

Now, if I go back to the top3 array, 

I can use it with 

the spread operator just like 

I used it for the top7 array. 

I type the showItinerary function and 

the three dots and the array name, 

top3 within parenthesis and I end with a semicolon. 

The function returns the combination of 

the strings and the variables I used earlier, 

visit the Colosseum, then visit 

Trevi Fountain and finish 

with a visit to the Vatican City. 

In this video, you explored what 

the spread operator is and how you can use it.