Did you ever think of 

the functions your TV remote does for you? 

It allows you to make changes to your TV. 

You can think of the DOM like a TV remote that 

lets you change the webpage content on the screen. 

It even allows you to replace 

only certain parts of the page, 

such as an image or the heading or both. 

A remote however, has certain limitations. 

You can only change the channel, 

contrast, brightness, and volume. 

The DOM gives you 

much finer-grained control than a TV remote ever could. 

For example, imagine you can change what characters in 

a TV movie look like with 

a few simple commands while the movie is playing. 

The DOM allows you to change 

properties of objects on a webpage. 

You can think of the DOM as 

a superpower remote for websites. 

It gives developers power in how they 

can manipulate and update webpages. 

The DOM is in the form of 

a JavaScript object with 

nested objects for different parts of the page. 

These objects have nested objects of their own until 

the entire HTML file is 

mapped out in what looks like a tree structure. 

The DOM is the model of the HTML file 

saved as a JavaScript object in your browser's memory. 

The browser automatically builds 

the DOM for every webpage that it downloads. 

For example, if you type 

a URL into your browser's address bar, 

the browser would fetch 

the webpage that exists on this domain. 

If the browser connects to the server and 

it allows the browser to download the page, 

it will receive all the HTML code 

and save it in its memory. 

The browser will then show the downloaded page. 

It would also build that webpage's DOM a model 

of the HTML document your browser has just downloaded. 

As a developer, you can interact with 

the page's DOM to make changes to the webpage. 

To interact with the DOM, 

you can use the Elements tab 

inside the browser's DevTools. 

You get to the DevTools by right-clicking anywhere 

in a browser window and then by clicking "Inspect". 

The Elements tab allows you to interact with the DOM of 

the currently active webpage 

using a graphical user interface, 

also known as a GUI. 

The browser also allows you to 

interact with the DOM using JavaScript. 

To do this, you should click 

the Console tab in the browser's DevTools. 

You can focus on the Console panel by 

pressing the Escape key on your keyboard. 

Once done, you can start typing 

JavaScript commands to view and manipulate the DOM. 

This is similar to how you 

interact with the DOM using the Elements panel, 

only this time you're using code to do it. 

The entire DOM object is saved inside 

the document variable and accessible via the console. 

Now let me demonstrate how DOM manipulation works. 

Using the document object model 

allows us to manipulate live websites. 

For example, I've opened my browser and loaded 

the example.com webpage from the Internet. 

I want to add a heading 2 HTML element 

to this webpage using the DOM. 

Once again, I have the Developer Tools open in 

the window to the right on the Console tab is active. 

It's important to remember that any changes I make to 

the DOM are relative to 

my browser's local copy of the webpage. 

I'm not updating the content of 

the live website so don't worry, 

you're not going to break it. 

If I reload the webpage, 

all changes I make to the DOM will be lost as it 

will reset to the page 

that was downloaded from the server. 

In order to create my heading 2 

I need to update the document object. 

To do this, I type document 

dot and then the method createElement. 

Then inside the open and close parenthesis, 

I type the name of 

the HTML element that I want to create, 

which is wrapped around single quotes. 

What I am doing here is passing 

the tag names as a JavaScript string. 

Finally, I'm going to assign 

this statement to a const variable. 

I type constant h2, 

and then the assignment operator, I press "Enter." 

Now I have successfully built my h2 element. 

You may notice that the webpage on 

the left has not been updated with the heading 2. 

This is because although, 

I now have a h2 element saved in JavaScript's memory, 

I still need to attach it to the DOM structure. 

Currently, it's not a part of the document object. 

Additionally, my h2 element also needs some text. 

Without it, even after adding 

the h2 element to the document, 

there would not be a visible change on 

the page because the added h2 element, 

although, being a part of the DOM, 

would have no text inside. 

In other words, it would be blank. 

Let's fix these two issues now. 

First, I'll make some updates to my h2 element. 

I'll add some attributes and 

some text using the inner text method. 

I can run this on my h2 variable. 

I type h2.innerText and then assign 

a string with a value of this is an h2 heading. 

Next, I want my heading 2 element to have 

an ID and a class HTML attribute. 

To do this, I need to use the set attribute method. 

I type h2.setAttribute, 

which takes two parameters. 

The first one is the attribute's name, 

which is ID, 

and then the value of the attribute. 

For this example, I'll name as 

sub-heading and press "Enter." 

Notice that inside the parenthesis, 

the name and the value are wrapped in 

single quotes and separated by a comma. 

Next, I need to use the set attribute method again. 

This time for the class attribute. 

I've pasted the same line of code, 

and now I just need to change the word ID to class. 

For the value, I change this 

to secondary and press "Enter." 

Finally, I'm ready to append my h2 object to the DOM. 

First, I can test that my code is correct by 

typing h2 and noticing the HTML structure's output. 

This looks good to me so let's add it to the DOM. 

I need to run the append child method 

on the document body to do this. 

Now, I type document.body.appendChild. 

Inside the parenthesis, 

I place my HTML structure stored in the variable h2. 

Success. My object is appended to the body of 

this webpage and 

the heading 2 text displays in the browser. 

You should now be able to explain the basics of 

DOM manipulation and use some of 

the most common DOM manipulation methods.