# Introduction to the course: React Basics

Welcome to React basics. In this course, you'll be introduced to the basics of working with React. 

- basic structure
- components
- stage management
- navigation
- assets

During this module, you'll learn how to develop a working familiarity with a basic structure and use of the React.js library.


Explore the concepts and practical use of state and stage management and discover how to set up navigation and make use of assets in your React apps. 

You'll begin by learning how to work with React to build modern user interfaces or UIs on websites front ends. 

## components

This involves the concept of standalone parts of the User Interface or UI. These standalone bits of UI are commonly referred to as components. You'll explore components in more detail later in this module.

For now, it's enough for you to know that every website's UI is built on a foundation of components and composability. 

Simple components combined into more complex ones, which eventually merge to form a website. 
简单的组件组合成更复杂的组件，最终合并形成一个网站。

A website can essentially be viewed as a highly complex components. Components and website UIs are not to limited to React. There's a part of the reason why React is so popular, is because it streamlines the process of building and composing components. 

React does this efficiently and without a significant impact on your browser's resources.

网站本质上可以被视为高度复杂的组件。 组件和网站 UI 不仅限于 React。 **React 如此受欢迎的部分原因是它简化了构建和组合组件的过程**。
React 可以高效地完成此操作，并且不会对浏览器资源产生重大影响。

## state

Another major topic that will be discussed in this course is working with state in React apps. You'll learn a lot more about state, you go through the course. 
本课程将讨论的另一个主要主题是在 React 应用程序中使用状态。 当你完成这门课程时，你会学到更多关于状态的知识。

But for now here's a simple definition of state. State is simply all the values of all the variables your app is working with at any given point in time. 

## style

As you progress through this course, you'll also learn about how to style your React apps, which includes the reuse of common styles.

Setting up your apps to respond to events such as clicks and user-submitted data, creating navigation routes and using assets and you'll finish off the course with a portfolio of projects where you'll apply your new knowledge. 
 
I hope you're as excited as I am to begin this course on React basics. Let's get started.
Welcome to React basics.