# 2.3_Video_Introduction-to-functional-components


Recall how you learned about functions in JavaScript. They are reusable blocks of code that can take an input, perform some procedure or calculation, and then return an output. Well, a React component acts much like a traditional JavaScript function. 

## functional components

In this video, you'll continue your exploration of the structure of the React architecture by learning about functional components. 

- Component types,
- JSX 
- and transpiling. `转译`
 
React provides two types of components, 
- functional components and 
- class components. 

They behave very similar in React to traditional functions, and classes in JavaScript. Don't worry about class components for now. You'll learn more about them later. 

Instead, let's just focus on functional components, which acts like a JavaScript function. In the default React application, only one component is rendered`仅渲染一个组件` and it's the app components located inside the index.js file that's located inside the source folder. 

It's important to know that every React app must contain at least one component, and it's called the root components. 

This component is loaded using the import statement. You'll learn more about the import statement in React later. 

For now, just know that it's used to import code needed for React to work, such as the import React and import React DOM statements. 

```
functon name(){

}

jsx
< name />
```

```index.js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';

import App from './App.js' // root component

reactDOM.createRoot(
  document.querySelector('#root')
).render(<App />)
```

The syntax to render a component is very similar to a self-closing tag in HTML, you just place the component name inside the left and right angle brackets and don't forget the forward slash. 

The roots components can contain other components that developers create to represent the various UI part of the application. Like in the e-commerce example that you learned about earlier. 

Recall that this component is ultimately`最终` converted to a DOM fragment`片段` and placed into the existing DOM as a child of the HTML div element with an ID of roots.

This div element is then rendered to the browser. If you analyze the app component, you'll notice that it looks very similar to a JavaScript function with some HTML code inside. You may also notice an export default statement. You'll learn more about this soon. For now, just know that you need it to make your components available. Now that you're familiar with the concept of functional components, let's explore how web developers create them in React. 

React is scripted using a special syntax called JavaScript XML or JSX. For many Reacts developers, this is known as a syntax extension to JavaScript. 

## JSX

What is JSX syntax like? 
Let's find out by going back to our React default app component.

Recall that in the return statements of the app function, it seemed that some HTML content is returned. Well, this content is not exactly HTML. It's JSX. JSX syntax looks very similar to HTML. What are its advantages is that it allows you to write JavaScript code inside what looks like HTML elements. 

In fact, you can think of JSX as a combination of custom HTML and JavaScript. This allows you to make your website dynamic. You'll learn more about the differences between HTML and JSX later. For now, just know that you can place this syntax`句法` inside the return statement of a functional component. It's also important to note that a React component won't render until it's used as a JSX element just like a JavaScript function declaration and won't run until it's called or invoked. 

Now you know what JSX is. Let's explore the steps involved to create a React components which will contain some JSX code inside a heading 1 HTML element to display some text on a webpage. 

First, you create the component, which is basically just a JavaScript file, since its purpose is to return some heading text, you name the file Heading.js. 

Notice that the first letter of the component name is capitalized. This is because there's a difference in how React treats capitalized, and non capitalized component names. It's important to remember that all component names in React must be capitalized. 

Why is this? Well, because React treats lowercase components as regular HTML elements. Capitalizing a component name helps React to distinguish JSX elements from HTML elements. 

Now let's continue with our component. Next inside the app.js file, create a function named Heading. The function name must also be declared using a capital letter for the first letter of the function. 

Then inside the function body, you create a variable named title and assign it the string value of this is some heading text. 

Now you're ready to create the return statement of the function. Inside the parentheses of the return, insert a heading 1 tag, and inside it place the variable named title. To make React evaluate the title variable, you need to place it inside curly brackets. 

`App.js`
```jxs
function Heading(){
  let title = "hi";
  return (<h1>{title}</h1>)
}
```

If you didn't use curly brackets`return (<h1>title</h1>)`, you'd get the word title instead of this is some heading text. At this point, it's worth remembering that while you are creating HTML like syntax, you are actually coding inside a JavaScript file. Because of this, you can output a variable inside your JSX code, something you cannot do when writing static HTML. The overall syntax instructs React to render the heading HTML element with whatever text value that is stored within the variable named title. This rendering happens behind the scenes because of something called transpiling. You can think of transpiling as a process of converting JSX to HTML and you'll learn more about this later. In this video you learned about functional components and how to create them in React. You also learned about JSX, which acts like a combination of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that you can use to generate dynamic content inside your functional components. Finally, you explore the concepts of rendering and transpiling. If you'd like to learn about these concepts in more detail. There's a link to an additional reading at the end of this lesson.
如果您没有使用大括号，您将得到标题一词，而不是一些标题文本。 此时，值得记住的是，当您创建类似 HTML 的语法时，您实际上是在 JavaScript 文件内进行编码。 因此，您可以在 JSX 代码中输出变量，这是编写静态 HTML 时无法做到的。 整体语法指示 React 使用存储在名为 title 的变量中的任何文本值来渲染标题 HTML 元素。 由于所谓的转译，这种渲染是在幕后发生的。 您可以将转译视为将 JSX 转换为 HTML 的过程，稍后您将了解更多相关内容。 在本视频中，您了解了功能组件以及如何在 React 中创建它们。 您还了解了 JSX，它的作用类似于 HTML、CSS 和 JavaScript 的组合，您可以使用它在功能组件内生成动态内容。 最后，您将探索渲染和转译的概念。 如果您想更详细地了解这些概念。 本课末尾有一个附加阅读材料的链接。