As you might already be aware, 

it's important to organize or structure 

your React components so that they're easy to access. 

But what does the structure look like? 

What files and folders are found 

within a typical React application? 

The React project structure is the focus of this video. 

By the time you reach the end of this video, 

you have learned how to explain 

the default folder structure of a React project, 

outline the benefits of the folder structure, 

customize the folder structure to 

hold components and assets, 

and explain the benefits of 

planning folder use for app development. 

Let's begin by examining how the default files and 

folders are laid out in a React app project. 

When you build a React app using 

the command npm init React app, 

your project is comprised of 

a specific file and folder structure. 

Notice that there are three folders named node modules, 

public, and SRC or source. 

Let's explore each of these folders briefly now. 

First, let's begin with the node modules folder. 

You can think of this folder as a repository 

for all the modules in your React app. 

The node modules folder is automatically added 

when you install a specific npm package. 

You might recall the packages or groupings of 

files and/or node.js modules. 

Developers use packages when they 

want to add a piece of functionality that 

someone else coded and made available to 

other developers via the npm ecosystem. 

Don't worry too much about the node modules folder. 

For now, just be aware of it and that 

it's needed for your React app to work. 

Next is the public folder, 

and it contains the assets that will 

be displayed to the user in your app. 

For example, image files for logos, the favicon, 

which displays an icon in the browser tab, 

and the robots.txt file, 

which is used for search engine optimization. 

Also, there is a manifest.json file, 

which is used to provide some metadata to a device 

when you're React powered web app is installed on it. 

While all these files are necessary, 

the most important one to know about 

for now is index.html. 

A React app gets injected into 

the specific elements inside 

the body of the index HTML file. 

Based on changes happening inside our React app, 

it injects those updates in that same div of index HTML. 

You'll find out more about how this 

works later on in the course. 

Finally, let's explore the contents of 

the SRC or source folder. 

This folder contains all the essential component files 

required to ensure that a React app functions. 

Notice that there are some files already in this folder. 

These were automatically created when I use 

the npm command Create React app 

to build a starter React app. 

As a React developer, 

you probably spend most of your time within this folder, 

so let's get a little more 

familiar with some of these files now. 

You may be familiar with some of them already, 

such as index.js and app.js, 

which are used to render the root components of the app. 

Let's briefly explore the others. 

App.css contains the styles for the app.js components, 

and the index.css file 

contains the styles to use in the entire app. 

App.test.js, setupTests.js, 

and the reportsWebVitals.js are 

files related to the app's performance and testing. 

The logo.svg file is displayed on the start page of 

the default app when the app is 

displayed in the browser on the local host. 

While these can be useful and 

the functionality is important, 

I can still safely delete them without affecting 

React's abilities to create a very basic application. 

I just need to also remove the code that references them. 

This is because React doesn't have opinions on 

how you organize your files 

and folders in the source folder. 

However, there are a few common approaches 

popular in the ecosystem 

and you'll learn about them soon. 

It's that this point is also worth 

remembering that the most important file in 

the entire source folder is the index.js file. 

This file imports everything that 

this React app needs to render a working React app. 

Now you have explored the main folders, 

let's explore the files and the root of the default app. 

Root files are additional files 

that are found in the root of 

the project folder itself and include a gitignore file, 

two json files, 

and a README file. 

The .gitignore file is using version control and 

it's used to specify what files and 

folders must be excluded from a project. 

It's important to note that this file 

is not specific to React. 

This means that other systems use this file too. 

The README.md file is 

a markdown file that gives 

some basic information on this project. 

Developers use this when they want to share 

the project's code on sites like GitHub. 

The package.json file lists 

information pertaining to my app, 

which allows npm to run several scripts and 

perform various tasks in the app itself. 

Finally, the package-loc.json file 

holds the list of all dependencies 

with a specific versions. 

The package.json file helps 

npm rebuild the app on another machine. 

Or if we delete the node modules folder with 

all the files that our project needs to run, 

the package-loc.json file has 

all the information for npm to be 

able to rebuild those files reliably. 

This file is there to ensure the npm 

tracks all the modules installations properly. 

As a general rule, 

it's better to leave these files where they offer 

the moment as they are required for the app to function. 

You should now be able to explain 

the default folder structure of 

a React project and 

outline the benefits of the folder structure. 

In addition, you should know how to 

customize the folder structure to hold 

components and assets and be able to explain 

the benefits of planning folder use for 

app development. Good job.