Well done. 

You've reached the end of this module on react components. 

Module one gave you an overview of the basic structure and use of react.js. 

The purpose was to enable you to produce single page applications with react. 

Let's take a tour of the lessons to determine how it did just that. 

First, you learned about how reactors used in the real-world from meta software 

engineer Katie. 

Then to lay the foundation for the hands on labs, 

you had a quick summary of the fundamentals of html, CSS and JavaScript. 

And then you learn how to set up a project in VS Code and 

how to work with JavaScript modules. 

The second lesson was all about react components and 

where they're stored within your applications. 

In this lesson, you were introduced component based architecture, 

a design philosophy for building software based on reusable components of code 

like the reactor library. 

You learned about component types and 

components style layouts that use the virtual DOM. 

And you learned how to create components that form the foundation of UI design. 

In this lesson, you also learned more about JSX, 

a special kind of syntax that acts like an extension of JavaScript. 

You learned how to transpire it in other words convert JSX to Html, 

which helped you to understand how a component is built. 

And in the young graded labs you learned how to build a new component inside 

the app component and have it rendeed onscreen. 

As well as how to save a component to its own file and 

importing it into its parent component so that it can be rendered onscreen. 

The third lesson was about component use and styling. 

You learned how to pass data from one component to another using properties and 

your ability to do so was tested in the un graded lab. 

And in the other upgraded lab you learned how to render one 

component multiple times using different props. 

You also learned more about how to use JSX and it's embedded expressions and 

how to style JSX elements in a way that is functional and looks good. 

As part of this lesson, you learned how to use and manipulate props and components. 

Define components using function expressions and arrow functions. 

Invoke functions inside of JSX expressions. 

Use expressions as props. 

Declare components that require props and use expressions and 

embedded expressions in attributes. 

After completing this module, 

you are now able to explain the concept behind React and component architecture. 

Create a component to serve a specific purpose. 

Create a component folder and 

demonstrate how to create an import files within that folder. 

Use and manipulate props and components to affect visual results. 

And describe how to use assets within an app to apply styling and 

functional components. 

That's a great start to your React journey. 

Well done on completing this module and get ready for the next one.