By now, you should be familiar with 

the concept of functional components in React. 

They are reusable blocks of code that 

act much like a JavaScript function. 

Recall that in JavaScript, 

you can make your functions more 

flexible by declaring them with parameters 

that allow you to pass in values as arguments 

when you call the function. 

Well, in React, you can perform 

a similar action using something called properties, 

which are represented as props. 

In this video, you will learn about the props object 

and how developers use it to pass 

data from one component to another. 

Then you'll explore component hierarchy 

and learn why components are set 

to have a parent-child structure. 

Before you begin your journey with props, 

let's revisit another piece of JavaScript functionality 

that will help you understand how props work. 

It's called the JavaScript object. 

Recall this in JavaScript, 

an object is a special type of variable 

that can contain many values. 

You use objects when you need to store 

groups of related data of different types. 

Each data type is known as 

an object property, for example, 

suppose you create an object called fruits that 

contains properties for type, quantity, and color. 

Remember that these properties 

consist of name-value pairs, 

and you can access 

the object's properties using dot notation. 

In React, you can use 

a similar technique to pass data 

from one component to another using 

the properties object or simply props. 

Props allow you to pass data 

from one component to another. 

It's helpful to think of props 

as arguments a component can accept 

and are passed using JSX syntax, 

much like HTML attributes. 

Inside the function, you use the keyword props. 

Now that you're familiar with the concept of props, 

let's explore an example to send some props 

to a component and print them out in a React app. 

Suppose you have the default code for the React app 

open in the index.js file, 

you call the app component. 

Inside the app component, 

you return an h1 heading with some static title text. 

While this code works, 

you can make this heading dynamic by using props. 

Let's now explore the syntax involved to create this. 

In the root component, index.js, 

you send the value you want to pass to 

the app component as an argument 

in the form of an HTML attribute. 

Next, in the app component, 

you accept this argument using the props object. 

To do this, you add the keyword props to 

the function declaration inside of the parentheses. 

Finally, to access this object's properties, 

you use dots notation to reference the name of 

the object property that was passed as 

an argument by the HTML attribute. 

Once again, remember to enclose 

your code inside curly brackets so 

React knows that you want to work with 

the props object and not static text. 

Because props is essentially a JavaScript object, 

it can accept many data types 

ranging from simple types such as strings 

and integers to more complex types 

such as functions, arrays, and objects. 

As a result, props allow developers to have 

greater flexibility when creating 

and working with components, 

especially when you want the flow of 

data in your app to be dynamic. 

While you just explore the basic example 

to dynamically print a heading, 

you'll get a chance to practice with 

more complex data structures using props later. 

Now you're familiar with how props work 

by sending data between components. 

Let's explore this data flow in a little more detail. 

When two components communicate with each other, 

the component sending the props data 

is known as the parent, 

and the component receiving 

the props data is known as the child. 

As you've just learned with the example earlier, 

this parent-child relationship allows 

parent components of past data 

down to child components using props. 

It's also possible for parent components to 

send the same data to multiple child components. 

However, it's important to know that 

this communication is a one-directional data flow. 

It's not possible to communicate 

from the child component back to 

the parent components using props. 

Instead, developers use other approaches. 

Don't worry about that for now. 

You will learn more about them later. 

Although props are a very powerful tool in React, 

they do have some limitations. 

For example, you just learned 

about how it's not possible to send data 

from the child component 

back to the parent component using prompts. 

Another important limitation has to 

do with something called pure functions. 

In programming, a pure function 

is a function that will always 

return the same outputs for 

the same argument values that are passed in. 

Don't worry too much about pure function for now. 

Just keep in mind that in React, 

when you declare a component using props, 

it must never modify its own prompts. 

In this video, you learned about how props are 

used to pass data to components. 

You discovered that a prop is 

a special react object that works in 

a similar way to a JavaScript object, 

and that its properties can be accessed by dot notation. 

You also learned why developers use props in 

order to make their apps more dynamic and flexible. 

Finally, you examined some of the limitations about 

using props in that you cannot use them 

to send data back to a parent component, 

and the functions using props 

must never modify its own props.