By now, you should be familiar with the concept of props, 

and that they allow you to pass data from one component to another. 

Developers use props when they want the flow of data in the app to be dynamic. 

This makes the app more versatile, helping it consume data easier. 

In this video you'll learn the syntax involved to use props and components. 

You'll also explore the passing of props to and within a component using functions. 

During this course you were introduced to an example of how to build a simple 

blog layout in react using components. 

Now you'll be introduced to a new component called the Nav component. 

Developers commonly build navigation menus using html on ordered lists. 

A navigation menu is basically just a list which can be styled easily with CSS, 

such a snippet of code is well suited to be placed in its own react component. 

Making use of the HTLM Nav elements to act as the block of code to return 

the JSX from it inside the function. 

For example, the return statement can contain several 

HTLM like elements, such as U L and L I tags. 

And this same Nav component can also be rendered as a JSX element to 

which we can pass dynamic value with props. 

In order to do this successfully you need to be comfortable with the concept 

of attributes. 

The best way to develop an understanding of attributes is with a live example of 

building a component using props. 

Here's a practical way to work with props. 

I'm in my app with the header main and sidebar components and 

all of them are rendered from the app component. 

The app component is in this case referred to as the parent component and the header 

main and side ball components are referred to as the Children of the app component. 

Are now past data from the app components to each of its Children components. 

First the header component receives a name prop, 

with a value of ANNA and a color prop with the value of purple. 

I'm sending those props from the header JSX element inside the app 

components return statement. 

Press control S, or command S on a Mac to save these changes. 

However, my re compiled app is not showing any changes because I send this data 

through the props object to the header component. 

I'm not using this data and the header component. 

So let me open the head of component and I'll first pass in the props object. 

For now, I'll just console log the props object Again Press control S, 

or command s to save the update and wait for it to compile. 

If I now inspect this object in the console, 

I find the console logged props object and 

it comes with two properties the name ANNA and the color purple. 

I can now access the values of the two properties inside 

the header component using props dot name and props dot collar. 

To make sure that the expressions are evaluated inside the JSX syntax, 

I must surround them with an opening and a closing curly brace. 

I press control S or command s on the MAC again, and wait for it to compile. 

Now my header shows the prop state received from the parent component, 

I'll now update the main and sidebar to. 

Back in the app components render statement, 

I add the greet prop with the value of howdy in the main JXS element, 

and the value of high in the sidebar JXS element. 

I opened the main components file and receive the props object

Play video starting at :3:51 and follow transcript3:51

Then outputs the value of opening curly brace props dot greet, 

closing curly brace. 

I can now delete the Hello string. 

Similarly in the sidebar components file, 

I'll also receive the props object and replace the Hello with 

an opening curly brace props dot greet, closing curly brace. 

I click file, save all and wait for the apps to compile. 

All my components are now using the data they received from their parent components 

using their respective props objects. 

You should now be able to effectively demonstrate the passing of props to and 

within a component using classes and functions. 

Great work