At this point in the course, 

you've been introduced to the concept of JSX, 

and how it's used to interact with components. 

In this video, you will explore JSX in 

more detail in the context of components and styling. 

You'll also learn how to mix JavaScript, 

HTML, and CSS within a component. 

What is it that makes JSX so special? 

In one word, expressiveness. 

Developers can express what they want to react to 

render using a very expressive syntax, 

almost identical to HTML or XML. 

In other words, JSX allows developers to 

write HTML directly inside the JavaScript code. 

For example, you can add 

navigation function to a website 

by creating a nav component. 

Then place the HTML semantic nav element, 

and an unordered list inside. 

Because this is React, 

the list values can be made 

dynamic by passing values as props. 

Is important to note that 

a regular JavaScript function is used to define how 

React should render the component wherever 

it's referenced using the nav JSX elements. 

This is what makes JSX so powerful, 

like the fact that you can insert 

specific JSX expressions such as variables and props. 

The reason why this is so great to 

work with, is because anything that's placed 

inside the curly braces of the code is 

essentially regular JavaScript code. 

For example, you could calculate a series of 

simple expressions using the Li or list item tag. 

This means that you can think of 

the curly braces as being 

special areas where you can write 

any kind of JavaScript code you like. 

You can write the rest of the code 

inside the return statement. 

Now that you've learned a little 

more about JSX expressions, 

let's focus on some JSX rules 

inside the return statement of the function. 

The return statements can be thought of as 

the area of expressive syntax that allows 

you to write regular HTML code 

as you'd like to have it in your rendered app. 

But if you need to return HTML code over multiple lines, 

it must be placed inside parentheses. 

This allows developers to alternate 

between regular HTML tags, 

and dynamic values represented as 

JSX expressions inside curly braces. 

It's also important to remember that 

the HTML code must be wrapped in a top level element, 

such as a div tag. 

If you do not want to add extra div elements to the DOM, 

you can use something called a fragment instead. 

This is like an HTML open and close tag 

without the tag name. 

While you can think of the code inside 

the return statement is regular HTML, 

it's worth remembering you are in a JavaScript file, 

and as a result, there are some differences. 

For example, you cannot use the keyword class to 

work with CSS classes in your HTML elements. 

This is because class is 

a reserved keyword in JavaScript, 

you must use a slightly different keyword 

called className instead. 

Also notice that class name is written in Camel Case, 

which depicts the separation of words by 

using a single capitalized letter. 

You can use className to list any number of 

CSS classes to style 

a specific JSX element inside a component. 

This is just like how you use a class 

attribute in regular HTML. 

It's only one of the many ways you can style React apps. 

You'll learn more about how to do this later. 

For now, just know that 

this is the closest to what you would do 

like if you were working with HTML, 

and CSS website layouts. 

There are some other differences, 

and you'll learn about them later. 

But in practical terms, 

you can consider the code to be pretty 

much just like regular HTML. 

In this lesson, you explored 

further the concept of JSX styling, 

and how it's used in React. 

You have now furthered your understanding of how 

to use JSX to mix JavaScript, 

HTML, and CSS within a component. Great work.