Recall that there are three techniques to 

include CSS and HTML documents. 

The first is in line by utilizing 

the style attribute inside the HTML element. 

Next is internal by 

using the style elements in the head section. 

Finally, external by linking to 

an external CSS file using the link element. 

In this video, you'll learn how to take 

CSS style rules from an external file named 

index.CSS and add it 

inside a component as an internal style. 

The style rules can then be referenced by 

your code inside the return statement of the component. 

Notice that the components are styled by 

the external style sheet, index dot CSS. 

For this video, I'll continue working on an app which 

consists of the components header, main and sidebar. 

This time the focus will be on using 

internal styling inside the sidebar components. 

To demonstrate this, I don't need to move 

all the code from the index.CSS file. 

Instead, I'll just focus on the style 

is related to the sidebar components. 

For example, I select the CSS code for 

a site and cut it by 

pressing Control X or Command X on Mac. 

After saving, notice that this removes 

the styling from the sidebar components 

displayed in the browser. 

Now let's go to the sidebar.js file where 

I'll paste the code before the return statement. 

This will not affect my component because I'm 

pasting CSS code into a JavaScript file. 

I need to make some changes to turn 

the CSS rule into a JavaScript object. 

To do this, I need to declare a site style as 

a const variable and then replace 

the semi-colons and the code with commas. 

I also need to replace 

the hyphenated names with camelCase.

Play video starting at :1:49 and follow transcript1:49

It's important to know that because 

CSS declarations like background 

are now an object property, 

I need to make their respective values a 

string by wrapping them inside double quotes.

Play video starting at :2:5 and follow transcript2:05

I also need to repeat this for 

the other news tile elements as well. 

Finally, inside the a site tag 

and return statements of the component, 

I need to add a style attribute by typing style 

equals aside style as a JSX expression. 

I then choose save all in 

the file menu to save my changes.

Play video starting at :2:28 and follow transcript2:28

Notice that the sidebar components 

appears in the browser as before, 

I edited the index.CSS file. 

That's an example of using 

inline CSS styling directly inside a component. 

In this video, you learned how to take 

CSS style rules from an external file named 

index.CSS and added inside 

a component as an internal style.