Recall that JSX is a syntax extension to 

JavaScripts that is used with React. 

It allows developers to write HTML 

as part of their component code, 

and is frequently used in React 

as it offers greater flexibility. 

In this video, you will learn how JSX is used 

and how to use its key feature embedded expressions. 

First, let's examine a JSX example 

that will output some text on a webpage. 

The code consists of a paragraph, 

HTML elements containing the phrase hello world. 

It is assigned to the constant variable named Result. 

Note that when this JSX code executes, 

the result variable will contain 

a react element that can then 

be inserted into the webpage. 

This is one of the key features of JSX. 

Building React elements from HTML code automatically. 

Let's explore another important feature of JSX, 

which is embedded expressions. 

Embedded expressions allow developers 

to insert the values of JavaScript variables 

into the HTML of the resulting React elements. 

Embedded expressions can also 

embed the outputs of functions. 

Let's say you need to output 

the person's name in a specific format. 

To do this, you can first 

create a function named format name 

that will return the first name and surname 

with a space character between them. 

In your JSX, you can then 

call this function inside the curly brackets. 

As with the previous example, 

the value that the function generates for 

the JavaScript variable will be output in HTML. 

Expressions can also be used for HTML attributes. 

This is useful if you need to insert 

the address of a person's profile picture. 

To do this, first, 

you would store the profile picture 

address in a variable named URL. 

The image will be displayed using the img elements, 

so you should embed the URL variable 

into the src attributes. 

Note that the double-quotes are not needed for 

the attribute value as JSX will automatically add these. 

This is just one example of 

how JSX is an efficient way of 

outputting HTML elements that 

contain JavaScript variable content, 

and you'll encounter more as you progress. 

In this video, you explored several JSX examples, 

including one that uses embedded 

expressions to insert the values of 

JavaScript variables into HTML within a React element.