Welcome to the Capstone Project course of the front end developer program. The Capstone project at the center of this course is based on a scenario involving the restaurant Little Lemon. In particular, the owners of Little Lemon have received negative feedback on the reserve a table function on the Little Lemon website. Users are confused about how to use it and unhappy with how it looks and functions. That's where you come in. In this course, you will learn how to build a responsive web app and demonstrate multiple skills by coding a modern front end application that allows users to reserve a table for the Little Lemon restaurant. You will be guided through the process of building the app, combining all the skills and technologies you've learned throughout this program to solve the problem at hand. Now, you may be wondering how this course is structured. Well, the course consists of four modules: starting the project, project foundations, project functionality, and project assessment. In the first module, starting the project, you'll do exactly that. Get started with the capstone project. This will include a brief recap of and links to content in the React course you have already completed, you'll start by setting up a coding environment, a React project, and a Git repository for the project on GitHub so you are ready to proceed with the development phase of the project. You'll also briefly recap UX and UI linking to content in a previously completed course, principles of UX and UI. You will employ UX, UI methodologies in your project, including preparing the wireframes and applying design fundamentals using Figma. In Module 2, which covers the project foundations, you'll use semantic HTML, meta tags and Open Graph Protocol to create a modern HTML structure for the web app. You will also use CSS grid and other CSS styling to set up a responsive, clear, and inviting website. Not to mention your recap the basics of React. Module 3 is all about the functionality of your project. You'll code the table booking system using React. The importance of UX and form validation will be covered with an exercise where you will validate forms in your app and write unit tests. Plus accessibility and UX, UI usability evaluation will be covered along with an exercise in both to ensure your interface complies with both issues. In the final module, project assessment, you'll have the chance to reflect on all you have learned and your accomplishments. More specifically, you'll have the opportunity to perform a self-review of your project and a peer review of other learners solutions for the little lemon reserve a table web app assessing the projects in terms of usability, accessibility, design, and code. With all of this to look forward to, I'm sure you are eager to begin. Let's get started with your project.