# 2.1_Video_Setting up the project
Now that you've been introduced to the course, it's time to start setting up for the capstone project.

That's why throughout this lesson, you'll revisit several concepts related to the setting up of that project.

First, you'll need to make sure that you have your coding environment ready for work.

Specifically, this means that you have the correct version of Node.js and npm installed on your machine and are working in an OS that allows you to freely interact with Node.js and build projects.

This means that you need a computer where you can perform actions freely, that is, a computer with administrator access.

You have an IDE or a code editor installed and setup to work with React and Git.

VS Code is preferred as this is the editor that's been used in other Front-End courses.

You have Git installed on your machine and you have a GitHub account so you can add a remote repository for your code.

You'll be using that create-react-app npm package to build a boilerplate React app, which is a minimal starter React app with starting code that you can develop from.

Setting up a React project like this implies that you understand what Node.js and npm are, how Node.js works with React at a high level, and how package.json works and what its purpose is.

You should also understand various concepts related to the code of a React app, including how a React app's code gets compiled from JSX, which the browser doesn't understand, to JS, which the browser does understand, bundled locally, and served locally with the help of a module bundler such as webpack.

This boilerplate React app is the starting point for your capstone project and will form the foundation of most of the work you'll complete in the process.

As you're probably aware, when you build a React project using the create-react-app npm package, that project comes with a local Git setup and an initial commit added.

This makes it a bit easier to set up the remote repository.

To be able to work with this Git setup properly, you'll need to revisit and make sure you have at least a basic understanding of the following concepts: Git and how it tracks files locally, the staging area in Git, the remote repository, how to set up a repository, and how to use the Git add, Git commit, Git push, Git log, and Git branch commands.

In this lesson, you'll also have a chance to revisit how version control works, and you'll set up a Git repository for your React capstone app.

You'll put this into practice by making updates to the starter React app and tracking those updates with Git.

You'll use some of the Git commands mentioned earlier to commit your code changes and push them to the remote Git repository from your local folder.

Remember, you need to keep doing this so that your remote origin and your local folder are in sync.

This is important because it makes sure that you have a project that is always ready to accept more contributors if needed.

Now, let's get started with setting up your project.