# 1.1_Global Competencies


(piano music plays)
The TVO ILC logo appears.

A white circle with a green edge shows the image of a gear inside a human head against a white screen. A caption reads "Cognitive Intelligence."

A Male Narrator says LEARNING TODAY IS VERY
DIFFERENT FROM 10 YEARS AGO.
IN THE PAST,
THE FOCUS OF LEARNING
WAS MAINLY ON
COGNITIVE INTELLIGENCE
AND HOW MUCH KNOWLEDGE
AND UNDERSTANDING
YOU COULD DEMONSTRATE.
TODAY, THE FOCUS IS ON
DEVELOPING YOUR ABILITY
TO THINK CRITICALLY,
ANALYZE, SYNTHESIZE,
AND EVALUATE
IN REAL-WORLD CONTEXTS.

A diagram shows ovals containing the new competencies around a puzzle.

He continues DEVELOPING YOUR GLOBAL
COMPETENCIES
WILL HELP YOU THRIVE
IN A GLOBALLY CONNECTED WORLD.
LET'S LEARN MORE ABOUT
THE GLOBAL COMPETENCIES.

A slate shows a hand taking a piece out of a puzzle.

He continues CRITICAL THINKING
AND PROBLEM SOLVING
INVOLVE ADDRESSING
COMPLEX ISSUES AND PROBLEMS
BY ACQUIRING, PROCESSING,
ANALYZING,
AND INTERPRETING INFORMATION
TO MAKE AND FORM
JUDGEMENTS, DECISIONS,
AND TAKE ACTIONS AND MEANINGFUL
REAL-WORLD EXPERIENCES.

The slate changes to shows a creative light bulb.

He continues INNOVATION, CREATIVITY,
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
INVOLVE THE ABILITY
TO TURN IDEAS INTO ACTION
TO MEET THE NEEDS
OF A COMMUNITY.
ENTREPRENEURIAL
MINDSETS AND SKILLS
INVOLVE A FOCUS ON BUILDING
AND SCALING AN IDEA SUSTAINABLY.

The slate changes to show a young woman looking at a laptop screen.

He continues SELF-DIRECTED LEARNING
MEANS BECOMING AWARE
AND DEMONSTRATING AGENCY
IN YOUR LEARNING PROCESS,
INCLUDING BELIEVING IN
AND REFLECTING ON
YOUR ABILITY TO LEARN
AND SELF-REFLECT.

The slate changes to show men and women seating at a table working.

He continues COLLABORATION INVOLVES
THE SKILLS NEEDED
TO PARTICIPATE EFFECTIVELY
AND ETHICALLY
WITH OTHERS AS PART OF A TEAM.

The slate changes to show people listening to a young man at a meeting.

He continues COMMUNICATION INVOLVES RECEIVING
AND EXPRESSING MEANING.
FOR EXAMPLE,
READING AND WRITING,
VIEWING AND CREATING,
LISTENING AND SPEAKING,
IN DIFFERENT CONTEXTS
AND WITH DIFFERENT
AUDIENCES AND PURPOSES.

The slate changes to show a close-up shot of raised female hands in a crowd.

He continues CITIZENSHIP INVOLVES
UNDERSTANDING
DIVERSE WORLDVIEWS
AND PERSPECTIVES
IN ORDER TO ADDRESS POLITICAL,
ECOLOGICAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC ISSUES
THAT ARE CRUCIAL TO LIVING IN
A GLOBALLY CONNECTED
AND SUSTAINABLE WORLD.
SO AS YOU LEARN THE SUBJECT
CONTENT FOR THIS ILC COURSE,
YOU WILL ALSO BE DEVELOPING
SKILLS THAT WILL BENEFIT YOU
TODAY, TOMORROW,
AND BEYOND.

Logo: TVO, Never stop learning.