# How to uncover job opportunities

Learning how to program in JavaScript helps you prepare for a wide range of job opportunities. This is in part because it expands the possibilities of what you can build as a developer.

JavaScript is one of the most in-demand programming languages, as it is used in nearly all active websites. Its versatility enables developers to use popular libraries, plugins, and frameworks such as React, which improves efficiency and productivity.

With all flexibility that programming in JavaScript brings, it is no surprise that there are different careers that you might want to follow. However, no matter what career path you choose, you will always want to learn other technologies like HTML, CSS, React, Node.js, or Python, so you are more marketable.

Let’s cover a few of the most common roles you can get if you know how to program in JavaScript.

**Mobile Developer** There has been a constant increase in the demand for mobile developers as mobile devices’ use for accessing the internet has been on the rise. Mobile developers specialize in building apps for platforms like Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS. Many developers choose to use React Native, which allows them to build one application using JavaScript that works on both Android and iOS devices. Mobile developers work with UX and UI designers and use React’s UI capabilities to implement functionalities that customers will use. Mobile developers also make sure that the front-end and the back-end of the applications work seamlessly. Other skills that mobile developers may have include HTML, CSS, Java, Kotlin, Objective-C, C++, C#, among others.

**Front-End Developer** As the name implies, front-end developers build the user-facing parts of websites and apps. They work closely with designers to implement visual and interactive elements through coding, using HTML, CSS, and of course, JavaScript. They also use libraries and frameworks like React to save time and make their work more efficient. Front-end developers may also be responsible for making sure the final user has a good user experience and that websites and apps behave as expected and are free of errors and bugs.

**Back-End Developer** Back-end developers work on the back-end of websites and applications. They can use JavaScript with Node.js to develop back-end functionalities. Among these functionalities are streaming and chat-based applications, as well as JSON APIs and serverless functions. Back-end developers possess additional skills, including professional working knowledge of Python, APIs, cloud infrastructure, and database.

**Full-Stack Developer** As you might guess, a full-stack developer works with both the front- and back-end of building websites and apps. So, these professionals combine the skills in these two areas. They can use frameworks like React to work on the front-end and Node.js to work on the back-end. They also apply skills in addition to JavaScript to build websites and apps.

**Your professional journey ahead**

As you embark on the exciting career as a professional developer, you will realize that you will progressively expand your skills to include a wide range of technologies and programming languages besides JavaScript.

If you want to have an idea of the opportunities available in these areas, you might want to check your favorite job search website or app and look for jobs related to JavaScript. You will learn that there is no shortage of opportunities. And as you start reading more about these roles, you will find that JavaScript is often only one of the competencies that employers are looking for.

But don’t worry, as you advance in your studies and in your career, you will further develop your skills to focus on the professional path you want to follow.

Good luck on your professional journey!