When you start programming in JavaScript, 

it helps to think of 

an empty JavaScript program 

as the first level of a sandbox game. 

The world is still empty, 

but there's some underlying structure to it to build on. 

That structure needs to be there so that you 

can write custom JavaScript code in the first place. 

However, besides the underlying structure, 

a new JavaScript program is 

like a blank slate for you to build on. 

It's up to you, the programmer using JavaScript, 

to say, let's build this world. 

An important part of this process 

is knowing how to use variables. 

In this video, you will learn how to 

identify what a variable is and why you need it, 

distinguish between variable declaration and 

variable assignment and describe how to 

get a variable's value and reassign it. 

Let me demonstrate this now, 

using some code to assign a value to 

a variable and output it to the console. 

Right now, I have 

the Developer Tools panel open in my web browser. 

You can access this by pressing 

''F12'' on Windows and Linux, 

or command option "I" on 

Mac then I select the console tab. 

This works with any browser, 

and for this example, 

I'm using Google Chrome. 

Now I want to give JavaScript 

some idea of what I want to build, 

and I start by adding a person's name. 

I do this by typing John in double quotation marks. 

JavaScript receives this person's name and accepts it. 

There are no errors. 

This means I've given it some valid data, 

something that JavaScript can work with. 

Now let's say that I want 

JavaScript to say, "Hello John". 

In other words, I want it to use the name that I 

gave JavaScript and I want it to greet the person. 

But how do I do it? 

If I type, "Hello John", 

I'm just typing the whole thing myself. 

I really want JavaScript to use the name I provided, 

so I don't have to keep retyping it. 

This is where variables come in. 

By using a variable, 

I can save the name John, 

so that I can reuse it in the future. 

To save this name in a variable, 

I'll start with the keyword, var, 

and use it to signal to JavaScript that 

I'm giving it a value that I wanted to reuse. 

To declare a variable, 

I type the keyword, var. 

Now, I need to declare 

a fact about this world that I'm building, 

so I type, 

person semicolon and press "Enter". 

Great. I've just declared my variable, person. 

I've given JavaScript one fact 

about the world that I'm building. 

The fact that there is a value that I'd like to reuse 

and that this value is accessible using the word person. 

Thus I have completed the variable declaration. 

However, I still haven't 

given a name to the person variable. 

In programming jargon, I'd say that 

the person variable hasn't been assigned a value yet. 

The person variable is still undefined. 

In other words, for the person 

variable to hold the value of John, 

I need to assign the value of 

John to the person variable. 

To do this, I'll use 

the assignment operator, the equals sign. 

Operators perform certain operations, 

and the assignment operator's purpose 

is to take the value that 

is on its right and put it into what it's on its left. 

To assign the name John to the variable person, 

I type var person equals John in-between quotes. 

I've taken the value John and assigned it to 

the person variable using the assignment operator. 

To confirm that this is really the case, 

let me inspect the contents of the person 

variable by typing, person semicolon. 

It returns John as the result. 

Now that I have this value in a variable, 

I no longer have to type 

John every time I want to use it. 

I can have JavaScript output the text, 

"Hello John" to the console by 

using the built-in console.log method. 

This is a common approach to 

outputting values in JavaScript. 

Notice that the browser is intelligently trying to 

guess what programming statement I want as I type. 

Don't worry about this now. 

I just want you to concentrate on 

variables and the console.log method. 

The console.log method can accept 

one or more values separated by commas. 

So, I type console.log, 

open parenthesis then I type ''Hello'' in quotes, 

comma, person for 

the variable and then close parenthesis. 

Notice that "Hello John" is now logged to the console. 

This is an example of combining 

static text with a dynamic variable 

where the value can change. 

But why stop here? 

Why not save the greeting in a variable too? 

Let's create another variable and call it, greeting, 

and assign this new variable the value, 

hello, in quotation marks. 

Now, when I use the 

console.log method with both variables, 

greeting and person, 

the words or the values of these variables, 

''Hello John'' are logged to the console. 

Finally, let me show you why variables are so useful. 

Now that I have the person and the greeting variables, 

I can reassign them, 

replacing their stored values. 

For example, I can change 

the value of the variable from hello 

to hi by typing greeting equals hi in quotation marks. 

Similarly, I can change 

the value of the variable person from 

John to James by doing the same thing. 

I type person for the variable then 

equals and finally James in quotation marks. 

Now, the value of the variable, greeting, 

is hi, and the value of the variable, 

person, is James. 

Notice that now I haven't used the var keyword when I 

reassigned the values to 

the variables that I created earlier. 

That's because JavaScript already knows that 

these variables exist in the world that I'm building. 

But the variables don't have to 

be static and unchangeable. 

That would be a pretty boring world. 

Now, I run the exact same piece of code as before 

by typing console.log and the name of the variables. 

Notice that I'll get 

a completely different result 

logged to the console, hi James. 

This is very important because it allows 

me to use the same code and get different results. 

This is the power of variables. 

If you want to find out more, 

there is an additional reading at the end of this lesson. 

Congratulations. 

You now know how to create a variable in JavaScript. 

Variables allow us to make 

the exact same code produce different results, 

making our programs versatile. 

That's it for this video on variables. 

Now that you've had some insight into 

how JavaScript world-building works, 

I hope you are excited to learn 

about more than just variables.