Imagine for a moment that you are faced with the task of moving all your 

belongings to a new place. 

What steps would you take to make the process more efficient? 

Well, you probably start by sorting items and packing them into boxes and 

then labeling those boxes so that you have an idea of what each one contains. 

After moving them, 

you put each box in the room it belongs to make unpacking quicker and easier. 

You can also think of programming in a similar way to packing and moving boxes. 

You have many different data types at your disposal but 

coding efficiently starts with knowing when and where to use them. 

In this video you learn to identify the primitive data types in JavaScript. 

You will learn about their specific use cases and when to use each data type. 

There are seven primitive data types in JavaScript. 

These are string, number, Boolean, null, undefined, BigInt and symbol. 

Let's begin by learning about the first two which are strings and numbers. 

Let's say that you are building an E-commerce app for selling guitars. 

When a user views the page for the most popular model, 

you want them to see the name of the guitar, the description, 

the best guitar around and the price of 375. 

Seems simple enough, right? 

But how can you ensure that the information displayed on screen is stored 

effectively so that the app can use it? 

You would do this by using the most appropriate data types but 

what does data mean exactly? 

Well, each piece of information in your app has a different value and 

all values are collectively referred to as data but the values differ and 

therefore need to be stored differently. 

For example, you store the name and description as text values and 

the price as a numerical value. 

In JavaScript, text values are known as the string data type while 

numerical values are referred to as the number data type. 

From a programming perspective, making a distinction between numbers and 

text is important because they adhere to different rules. 

For example, to build a number, you simply type in the numerical values but 

to build a string in JavaScript, 

the characters must be enclosed in either single or double quotes. 

There is also a difference in the number of combinations that the number and 

string data types can store. 

The number data type has a very wide range in JS enough for most common use cases. 

However, it is limited up to a point determined by JavaScript calculation 

capabilities. 

The string data type practically has an unlimited number of combinations of 

characters. 

There is almost an infinite number of ways we can combine different characters 

into strings. 

Okay, so back to our app example, the data must be stored using different types. 

The price will be stored as a number while the name and 

description will be stored as strings with each one wrapped in double quotes. 

You now know that the string data type is great for storing values such as titles 

and descriptions while the number data type is better suited for 

prices or any value that you would like to calculate. 

However, there are additional data types in JavaScript to help you tackle 

different tasks. 

Next let's explore each of the remaining data types and their specific use cases to 

better understand how you might make good use of them. 

Let's think of each one as a box. 

Like I mentioned earlier, the Boolean data type has only two values, true and false. 

This means that it is useful for making decisions. 

Sometimes it's necessary to know when a variable does not contain a value. 

And JavaScript has two data types to express just that. 

First, there is the null data type which only has the value null and 

represents the absence of value. 

You also have the undefined data type which can only hold the value undefined 

and usually refers to a variable that has not yet been assigned a value. 

The capabilities of JavaScript have evolved over time and version ES6 

introduced two new primitive data types to help with more complex tasks. 

One is the BigInt data type which is like an extra large box that can 

accommodate a much greater range of numbers than the number data type. 

Finally, there is the symbol data type which can be used as a unique identifier. 

Think of it as having multiple boxes with the same label and 

using different serial numbers to avoid mixing them up. 

In this video, 

you've learned about the various data types available in JavaScript. 

Remember that every data type has a specific use case and 

knowing when to apply each one will make you a better coder, see you next time.