Where do you think the name operators come from? 

Does it have something to do with 

an operation of some sort? 

Well, the answer is yes. 

Operators are used to perform 

operations on variables and values. 

An operator is used to manipulate 

individual data items and return a result. 

For example, you may already be familiar with 

the assignment operator to assign a value to a variable. 

You use assignment operators for 

simple and complex calculations. 

They provide us with 

similar options to those on a calculator. 

In this video, you will learn about assignment and 

logical operators and how to use them in JavaScript. 

First, let's start with 

the assignment operators which you can 

use to perform simple arithmetic. 

For example, to add two numbers, 

you can use the addition operator, 

which is represented by the plus symbol. 

If you want to subtract values, 

use the minus operator, 

which is represented by the hyphen symbol. 

If you want to perform division, for example, 

35 divided by 5, 

use the division operator, 

which is represented by the forward slash. 

Finally, to multiply numbers, 

use the multiplication operator, 

which is represented by the star symbol. 

In addition to assignment operators, 

you can also use comparison operators, 

which compares and returns 

a logical value based on whether the comparison is true. 

For example, you can compare 

numbers to check if they are greater than, 

less than, equal or not equal to each other. 

You will learn more about the various assignment and 

comparison operators later in this course. 

But for now, let me tell you about logical operators. 

Logical operators are used in JavaScript 

to determine if something is true or false. 

For example, the logical operator named end, 

which you can use to check 

the two or more conditions are true. 

Imagine you had a variable named A and you 

wanted to check that its value is 

greater than five and less than 10. 

For this to be satisfied, 

both statements must be true. 

Alternatively, there is the operator named R, 

which checks for at least 

one of the statements to be true. 

For example, A is greater than five, 

RA is greater than 10. 

Finally, you can use the logical operator, 

NOT, which returns a false value if the result is true. 

Operators are used to control 

the flow of a program that meets certain criteria. 

Now let me demonstrate how to use JavaScript, 

math and logical operators. 

I've opened VS Code here. 

Now, let me demonstrate how you can use 

arithmetic and comparison operators in JavaScript. 

Recall that comments are used to 

specify which lines JavaScript should ignore. 

As you learned earlier, 

you can put almost anything inside comments. 

Notice I have two multi-line comments. 

The first one lists some arithmetic operators, 

and the second one lists some comparison operators. 

I also have several single-line comments. 

You already learned that 

JavaScript completely ignores comments, 

and here's the proof. 

I click on the Run code icon. 

Notice that the output in the right panel will not show 

any values other than 

the expected additional info on the code that was run. 

Let me clear that for now and show you how to work 

with some arithmetic and comparison operators. 

I'm going to uncomment 

all single-line comments from lines 14-21, 

so that you can focus on each of 

these console logs separately. 

This will then allow me to demonstrate 

how each of these operators behaves. 

Let me delete the two forward slashes on 

line 14 and rerun this file. 

Notice I get the value of four outputted to the console, 

resulting from adding the values 2 plus 2. 

Let me clear the console, 

comment line 14 and uncomment line 15. 

This is an example of adding 

multiple numbers using the plus operator. 

Notice when I run this, 

I get the output of 15. 

Let's do another one using 

the subtraction operator to subtract 18 from 20. 

If I run this, I get the expected output of two. 

Next is multiplication, 

which is represented by the asterisk symbol. 

Here I will console dot log the values 

of 2 times 3 to get the value of six. 

On line 18, I use 

the forward slash symbol 

for the division of eight by one. 

Notice when I run this, 

a value of eight is outputted, success. 

That's it for performing simple arithmetic in JavaScript. 

Let me clear my screen again. 

Now I want to demonstrate how to 

work with comparison operators. 

Notice on line 19, 

I use the greater than symbol to 

check if three is greater than two, 

run it and indeed it is, 

I get an output of true. 

On line 20 I use the greater than 

symbol to check if two is greater than three. 

Since it's not, I receive an output of false. 

These words true and false are 

special kinds of values used in JavaScript. 

Don't worry too much about them now, 

as you will learn more about this later. 

For now, I just want you to 

focus on the final line of code. 

This checks if one value is equal to another value. 

It's important to remember that you need to use 

the equals symbol twice for 

this comparison operator to be valid. 

This is because the single equal symbol 

is used for the assignment operator, 

like when you assign a value to a variable. 

I would expect the value of 10 to be equal to 10. 

Let's run it to find out and it is. 

Notice a value of true is outputted to the console. 

Congratulations, you have now 

learned how to work with operators in JavaScript. 

This is a must-have skill in your development toolkit 

as they are used in many areas 

of programming. Great work.