Since you're new to JavaScript, 

you might not be familiar with strings. 

Strings are used to represent and work with 

a sequence of characters while programming in JavaScript. 

Let me explain how they work. 

To demonstrate the concept of strings, 

I have the developer tools open in my browser and 

the Console tab is selected. What is a string? 

A string in JavaScript is a collection of 

characters enclosed by single quotes, double quotes. 

Such a collection of characters 

is known as a string datatype. 

Strings are one of the most common types 

of data you'll be working with. 

To code a string, I type in 

a pair of single quotation marks. 

This piece of code with just an opening and closing 

single quote is referred to as an empty string. 

To build an empty string, 

I can also use double quotation marks. 

While empty strings have their place in JavaScript, 

they're not very versatile. 

But strings don't have to be empty, 

so let me build a non-empty string 

with some letters and an exclamation mark. 

I do this by typing the words hello there, 

and an exclamation mark within 

a pair of single quotation marks. 

Besides letters and punctuation symbols, 

we can add almost any other character 

into a string, including numbers. 

For example, I can type 'hello there! ' 

and follow it up with several symbols and numbers. 

This is still a valid string. 

There's one thing that strings can't 

do and that is break onto the next line. 

When I type a single quotation mark, the word hello, 

and then press Enter before 

typing the second quotation mark, 

it results in an error which stops the code from running. 

The same happens if I use double quotation marks. 

When you use single or double quotes 

to surround string values, 

these characters are referred to as delimiters. 

This is because I use them to delimit 

a given string value from the rest of my code. 

There are some unusual situations that can trip you 

up when you first start using strings in JavaScript. 

For example, let's say 

that I want to create a new string. 

I do this by typing a single quotation mark, 

followed by the phrase, 

it is a lovely day, 

and I close the string with 

a second single quotation mark. 

Now I want to use the contraction of it is by 

using an apostrophe but again, error code. 

This is because JavaScript reads the word it, 

that is the first two letters as forming a string, 

and then it doesn't understand the rest 

of the code because of the apostrophe. 

To fix this issue, 

I need to nest single quotes inside double quotes. 

I do this by replacing 

the original single quotation marks on 

either side of the phrase with double quotation marks, 

and now you'll notice there are no more errors. 

You can make single and double quotes 

too but it's better to stick with one or the 

other because it can be confusing and lacks 

consistency, and there you have it. 

You have learned what a string datatype 

is and what an empty string is. 

You can also explain what 

the string datatype is in JavaScript, 

I encourage you to try and make 

some more strings while practicing coding.