Every day from the moment we wake up, 

you and I make decisions. 

From what clothes to wear, 

whether to have tea or coffee for 

breakfast or even what movie to watch. 

While some decisions are complex, 

some can be relatively simple. 

We make them based on whether 

some condition is either true or false. 

For example, if it's raining outside, 

we will likely bring an umbrella. 

The condition here is the weather. 

If it's raining, we take an umbrella. 

If it's not, we don't. 

In this video, you will 

learn about conditional statements in 

JavaScript using the if and else statements. 

In JavaScript, there are 

pieces of code called conditionals, 

and developers can use them to run code 

conditionally based on whether 

something is either true or false. 

There are many types of conditional statements, 

but the first one I want you to learn about 

is something called the if statement. 

The if statement checks a condition and will 

execute a code block if the condition is met or true. 

The condition criteria are essential here. 

The block of code will only get executed if 

the condition is evaluated to the Boolean value of true. 

You can use many types of 

comparison operators to evaluate the condition. 

These include operators such as equal to, 

greater than, less than, 

and not equal to. 

You can find a complete list of 

comparison operators from the additional reading 

at the end of this lesson. 

So far, you've learned about using conditionals with 

binary conditions where a thing 

can be either true or false. 

However, in the world of programming, 

things are often not that simple. 

Imagine you are a developer working on 

a website where a person can 

practice for their driving test. 

Part of the driving test is that they must pass 

a theory exam of 50 questions 

based on the rules of the road. 

The exam has only two results, pass or fail. 

If the student's score is greater than 40, they pass. 

If not, they fail. 

You need to output the exam result to the learner. 

This is where another conditional statement can be used, 

and it's called the if-else statement. 

This statement handles both outcomes of 

our conditional request using the else keyword. 

If a condition is true, do something. 

If it's false, do something else. 

Recall, a driving test example. 

We can store the test result in a variable. 

Suppose the variable value is greater than 40. 

In that case, the true block is executed, 

and you output a message to 

the console telling the learner that they passed. 

Suppose the variable value is less than 40. 

In that case, the false block is executed, 

and you output a message to 

the console telling the learner that they did not pass. 

There will be many occasions where you will need to 

program for more complicated conditions or scenarios. 

For example, you may want to test multiple conditions. 

To do that, you can add 

an additional block called the else-if statement. 

In this video, you learned about 

the conditional statements, if and else. 

Conditional statements are a powerful tool, 

and one of the fundamentals you need to 

master when programming in JavaScript.