In our everyday life, 

there are times when we have to repeat 

some activity again and again. 

For example, closing each button when putting on a shirt, 

washing a stack of plates one by one, 

or counting down from ten to 

one before singing Happy New Year. 

Repetitive tasks are effective life, 

and sometimes we also need to 

do these in our JavaScript code. 

In this video, you will learn about 

looping constructs and how they can be 

used to perform repetitive tasks. 

Recall the conditional IF statement that 

executes a block of code if a certain condition is met, 

this sequence only runs once. 

What if you needed to do this multiple times? 

Well, to do this you need to do something called loops. 

In JavaScript, developers use loops to continually 

execute repeated blocks of code 

until a certain condition is satisfied. 

Loops are similar to conditionals and that a condition 

must be satisfied in order for the code to execute. 

But loops have an additional parameter, 

which has many names. 

But for the moment, you can think of this 

as an incrementer or loop counter. 

To understand why the counter variable is so important, 

let's consider a real-life situation. 

We're counting down from 10-1, 

before singing Happy New Year. 

In other words, only after we have completed the count, 

we can start singing. 

Those our countered needs to be a specific value, 

a one and only after that, 

we can sing a song. 

In JavaScript, the counter can be any 

variable or any number but in programming, 

it's common to use the letter I. 

The role of the counter is vital here, as, without it, 

your loop will not know neither when to 

start nor when to terminate, 

and could run indefinitely. 

This is known as an infinite loop. 

For example, say you wanted to program 

a count sequence like 1,2,3. 

You could do this just by using the console.log method. 

However, we are essentially 

performing the same activity here. 

The only difference is that we're changing 

the number that is being logged to the console. 

Using a loop, we could perform the same task 

more efficiently and using less lines of code. 

While this might seem like 

a minimal gain for counting to three, 

imagine counting to 100. 

Using a loop, you can achieve this 

with the exact same three lines of code. 

You just have to update the condition. 

There are many types of loops, 

such as the for loop, 

the while loop, and the nested loop. 

You will learn about the nested loops 

later in this lesson. 

For now, let's explore the far end while loop. 

First is the for-loop, 

which is used to loop a block of 

code a certain number of times. 

The for-loop is a structured loop with 

a specific conditional structure 

where a counter variable must be set. 

Then a condition must be specified and finally, 

the counter must be incremented. 

This can either be an increase or 

a decrease depending on your needs. 

The while loop is similar to the for-loop. 

It will also run for as 

long as the condition returns true. 

However, the start counter is set outside of 

the while loop and the incrementing 

is done inside the loop's body. 

Congratulations. In this video, 

you learned about loop construction 

using the far and while loop. 

While you can achieve the same results using either a 

for or while loop as a budding developer, 

you might find it easier to work with the for-loop. 

This is because the loop is 

self-contained with all the loop's logic in one place. 

Additionally, always remember 

to update the counter value, 

otherwise, the loop might loop forever.