Let's say you want to code a count from 1-3, 

and then say go as if we're erasing. 

You could do this by logging 

each step to the console for 1, 

2, 3 and go. 

While this method works, 

imagine a situation where you have to count from 1-10, 

1-100, or even more, 

where we have to type the console dialog method 

a 100 times. 

Luckily there's a more efficient way to do this 

by using something called a for-loop. 

Let me clear my counsel and paste 

in an example of how to do this using a for-loop. 

First is the declaration using the for keyword. 

This declaration consists of 

something known as the counter. 

The counter is a variable which is 

typically named i for iterator, 

but you could use any variable name you want. 

The counter has three conditions 

for the for-loop to function. 

First, the start count value must be assigned, 

in this example it's one. 

The second condition is the end-count value. 

This specifies how many 

times the loop will iterate or run. 

In this example, 

the condition is that the value of i must be 

less than or equal to three for the loop to run. 

The final part is the incrementor 

which changes the value of i on each loop. 

It's set to increase the number 

stored in the variable i by one, 

each time the code inside the loop runs. 

You may have learned the technique i equal to i plus 1, 

but you can also use the syntax i plus plus as 

another way to increase the value of i by one. 

If you do not specify how the value 

of i should be increased after each loop, 

the for loop will run forever, 

as i would always be less than three. 

You need something known as an exit-condition. 

The exit-condition works with 

the incrementor to prevent the loop from 

running forever by specifying 

at which value to terminate the loop. 

In this example, the loop terminates when 

the value of i is greater than three. 

The loop will terminate when 

the exit condition returns false. 

In other words, until the value of i equals to 4. 

Since 4 less than or greater than 3 returns false, 

the for-loop will exit and JavaScript will 

continue reading and running code below it. 

The final part of the for-loop is 

the loop-body which is enclosed in curly braces. 

This contains the block of code that I 

want to run on each loop-iteration. 

In this example, I want to print the value of i 

to the console using console-dialog method. 

Notice that this code outputs 

the same result as displayed earlier. 

Well, let's see in an action. 

Great, you've just created your first for loop. 

There are different ways that you can work with for loop. 

For example, I could start my count at 10 

and set the value of i to be greater than zero. 

Now, instead of incrementing 

the value of i with plus plus, 

I can decrement with the value minus minus. 

This is essentially like counting backward. 

Instead of saying go, 

we might say Happy New Year. 

I press, "Enter," and there is the result. 

The countdown outputs from 10-1 and the greeting, 

Happy New Year is displayed. 

Let's break down what's happening here. 

The console-dialog part of the for-loop was repeated 

10 times until the value of i reached zero. 

Once the value of i reached zero, 

the condition i greater than 0 

was no longer met and the loop exited. 

Remember, a for-loop is a way to 

automate repetition in JavaScript. 

Why not try creating one in 

your own code to repeat some code.