In this video you will learn about another type of loop, 

the while loop and use it to code a countdown to the happy new year greeting. 

The while loop is quite similar to the for loop but they're not exactly the same. 

The first major difference is the counter value. 

With a while loop this is set before the loop and must be clearly defined. 

Let me demonstrate this now. 

First, I create a variable called counter and set its value to 3. 

Next I want you to know about the second major difference. 

This is that you only need to specify the exit condition in the parentheses of 

the loop declaration or put differently, 

we just give JavaScript an expression to check. 

If that expression returns true JavaScript will then run the code inside 

the while loop. 

In this example our condition will be counter is greater than 0. 

Since the counter value of 3 Is greater than 0 it returns true. 

So to construct the while loop I typed the word while and 

then the condition inside the parentheses, this is counter greater than 0. 

Next, inside the wild loops code block I need to tell it what to do. 

In this example I want to run the console.log method to output the value 

of the counter, then I need to decriminalize my counter by a value of 1.

Play video starting at :1:18 and follow transcript1:18

This means that the first time JavaScript starts running the line of code with 

the while loop declaration it checks the value of the counter variable. 

If the counter value is greater than 0 and it is, 

it will run the code inside the wild loop then it will output the current value of 

the counter variable to the console which is the number 3. 

Next, it will calculate the value of counter- 1, that is 3- 1 which is two. 

It will then update the counter variable by assigning the number two as its 

new value. 

Finally it will return to the whiles condition and 

check if the counter value is greater than 0, that is if two is greater than 0. 

Since it is, it will go into the while loops code block again and 

output the counters current value which is two. 

Then it will update it again by assigning the result of 2- 1 as the updated 

value of the counter variable. 

Now since it's reached the end of the block, JavaScript will go back up and 

confirm that it's true that 1 is greater than 0 then go inside the while loops 

body again, output the value of 1 and update the counter to 1- 1. 

Since it's reached the end of the loop's body, it will go back up and 

check if 0 is greater than 0 and 

since it isn't it will not run the code inside the while loop again. 

Instead any code under the closing curly brace of the while loop will run. 

To demonstrate this I add another line of code under this closing curly brace and 

console log the string, Happy New Year and that's it. 

Congratulations, you have now learned how to create and run a while group. 

Why don't you give it a try? 

Loops are a common way to automate code repetition. 

If you would like to learn more about the specific use of loops there is 

an additional reading at the end of this lesson.