## 字幕
By the end of this video, 

you'll know how to install 

the react-router library on your machine, 

which gives you more tools for 

setting up navigation in your apps. 

You'll also practice using this library to 

create a basic navigation for a web-page. 

Let's examine a starter app that I've already prepared. 

It has two components which are 

named Homepage and Aboutme. 

Currently, Homepage is written 

to display the header text, 

Welcome to my site on the page. 

The Aboutme component displays the header text About Me. 

Both components are children of the app component. 

Notice that Homepage and Aboutme are both 

imported into the app component 

and referenced using anchor tags. 

However, with the default React library, 

these anchor tags won't work as expected. 

This is because React can't imitate multi-page websites. 

However, I can make this possible with the help 

of another library known as React Router. 

As you may have guessed from the name React Router 

gives you more control over the routing of components. 

I'll install it using the npm command, 

npm i react-router-dom@6. 

To confirm that it's available, 

I inspect package.json and 

find the new entry in the dependencies, 

which is react-router-dom 6.3.0.

Play video starting at :1:29 and follow transcript1:29

Now that react-router is installed, 

I'm ready to make my broken links work. 

First, I'll access the index.js file, 

and enter a statement to import 

browser router from react-router-dom. 

Once I've imported it, 

I need to wrap the app jsx element inside 

the browser router by placing it 

between the browser router tags.

Play video starting at :1:57 and follow transcript1:57

With that done, let's return to app.js. 

Here I need to import routes 

and route from react-router-dom.

Play video starting at :2:15 and follow transcript2:15

I also need to replace 

the child jsx elements with some different code. 

Homepage becomes route path equals 

and then forward slash between double quotes. 

This is followed by element equals and 

then the homepage jsx elements inside of curly braces. 

Note that the route tag is 

self-closing and has no children inside. 

For Aboutme, I add a similar line, 

but I'll add about-me after the forward slash.

Play video starting at :2:56 and follow transcript2:56

These slides will also be encased between route tags.

Play video starting at :3:7 and follow transcript3:07

If I go to my browser and type 

the exact link on one of the routes, 

for example, /Aboutme, 

I'll get only the Aboutme components 

showing under the navigation. 

However, if I remove 

the Aboutme from the URL, in other words, 

if I open the root route that is 

represented with a forward slash, 

then it will show the text from 

the homepage component under the navigation bar. 

Notice that I'm grouping all the routes by wrapping 

them inside the routes jsx element. 

Also note that the nav tags 

are outside of the routes tag, 

meaning that navigation is outside the routes. 

Finally, I need to replace the 

anchor tags with React router links. 

This allows the correct component 

to be loaded when the link is clicked, 

rather than simply refreshing the page. 

In the app component, 

the anchor tag for homepage becomes 

link to equals and 

then the forward slash between double quotes. 

This is followed by class name equals and 

then nav-item in double quotes.

Play video starting at :4:14 and follow transcript4:14

For Aboutme, the change is similar except 

that about-me appears after the forward slash.

Play video starting at :4:33 and follow transcript4:33

I also need to import link from 

react-router-dom and save my changes. 

Now when I click on either of the navbar links, 

the correct content loads in the browser. 

In this video, you learned how to install 

the react-router library and neutralize some 

of the key functionalities to create a navbar. 

Now you're ready to learn about 

more efficient ways for users to navigate your apps.

## 摘要