## 字幕
By now you should be familiar with the concept that 

react dynamically changes web page content. 

For example, you discover that when they react website changes from home page 

text to about me text, it isn't going to a new page, 

it's rendering one component instead of another. 

While this is useful, you need to give react very specific instructions about 

what and what not to render. 

And when you have components that are responsive to events such as clicks, 

this can add another layer of complexity. 

Fortunately, there are several approaches for writing the logic to ensure that 

this process goes smoothly and requires less work from you. 

By the end of this video you'll have a high level understanding of conditional 

rendering and know how to set it up using ternary operators. 

Recall that state is a component internal data, which that component can control or 

change as opposed to props, which the component receives but cannot alter. 

In an app, you can render components conditionally based on whether a specific 

state data has specific values. 

In other words, when you write the rendering logic in the main app component, 

you'll need to reference the state of the other components. 

For example, suppose you have a component that contains code for 

a button that shows a sidebar, the button controls the state of the toggle 

sidebar variable, which is set to false. 

When the button is clicked, the state of the toggle sidebar variable is updated 

to True, and the sidebar component is displayed. 

To make this possible react works with conditional concepts and 

syntax that are already available in JavaScript. 

For example, recall the conditional if statement in JavaScript, developers 

use it to run code conditionally based on whether something is either true or false. 

To illustrate conditional rendering in action, 

let's first consider an example productivity app. 

Based on the device's data at the time of access, 

the app displays one of two messages. 

For work days, the message is, Get it done! 

For weekends, it displays, Get some rest. 

As a developer, there are a few ways you can achieve this functionality in react. 

But in this video you'll focus on using the ternary operator to write simplified, 

if else conditions, you start by creating a component called CurrentMessage. 

This component uses the built in date function in JavaScript, 

along with the get day method to store the day of the week as a number, 

where zero represents Sunday, and six, the following Saturday. 

Next, you create the two components that each holds one of the messages to 

be displayed. 

Let's name these components Workdays and Weekends. 

The current message component needs to render the appropriate components based 

on the value returned from the getDay function call. 

Let's set up the conditions to make that happen. 

Recall that the ternary operator takes three commands. 

First is the condition, which in this example uses the logical and operator. 

The condition checks if the value stored in the day variable is greater than or 

equal to one, and less than or equal to five. 

Then the question mark symbol, 

followed by the expression to execute if the condition evaluates as true. 

In this example, the component, Workdays, is rendered. 

Next is the colon symbol, 

which represents the code to be executed if the condition evaluates as false. 

And if this happens, the component weekends is rendered. 

Using the logical and operator in the condition means that 

both expressions have to return true in order to render the Workdays component. 

Otherwise, the Weekends component will be rendered. 

While using the ternary operator is a common pattern that you'll see in 

react code. 

If you are new to react, it may be difficult to understand what's happening. 

So let's refer to a simpler version that uses boolean values. 

In this example component, IsItSummerYet, 

the variable summer is set to a value of true. 

A ternary operator returns to the expression after the question mark if 

the condition before the question mark is true. 

Otherwise, it returns the expression after the colon symbol. 

So since the variable, summer, evaluates to true, 

rendering this component will return the string, Let's go to the beach. 

In this video, you learned about conditional rendering and 

how to implement it within dynamic apps by using ternary operators.

## 摘要