## 字幕
In this video, I'll demonstrate various ways of displaying images. 

You'll learn three different ways to display an image and 

react app specifically by using the import statement using the require function 

to set the file path, or by providing an image URL. 

To demonstrate how you can work with embedded assets, 

I've created a basic app called Embedded Assets. 

In my app source folder I added the assets folder which also contains an image 

folder.

Play video starting at ::27 and follow transcript0:27

Notice I've added one Jpeg image to the images folder named Central Park. 

To view the code of the app component, I click on the app.Js file.

Play video starting at ::38 and follow transcript0:38

Notice that the starting code of my app component just under some text that 

describes the task at hand, which is to display three images with some styling. 

For this, 

I'm going to demonstrate the three distinct ways to import images and react. 

The first way is to use the import method and 

I want to demonstrate how you set a name for your imported image. 

To import the image file Central Park, I type import rooftops and then dot 

forward slash to provide a relative path to the file enclosed in double quotes. 

In this example my file is in the images folder inside the assets folder.

Play video starting at :1:20 and follow transcript1:20

Next I'll render this image as an image tag. 

In my code, I use the height attribute to limit the size of the image by making its 

height exactly 200 pixels. 

I'm setting the source attribute to the value of rooftops which contains the path 

to the image file. 

Finally, for 

best practice, I add an outer attribute with a basic description of the image.

Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46

I save my file and notice that my image now displays in the browser. 

Okay, so that's one way to import an image using the import statement. 

The second way to import an image is by using the require keyword. 

To do this, I create this image with an image to act like I did before. 

Again, I limit the size of the image by making its height exactly 200 pixels. 

But this time I set the source attribute to require, 

I pass in the relative path of the image to the required function. 

The path is passed in as a string data type, so 

that's why the path is enclosed in double quotes. 

Once again to finish my image code, I add a description of the image to the L to 

attribute, I saved my code and the second image now appears. 

Notice that with this approach I don't have to import the image. 

I just require it and provide the string with the relative path to the image. 

Now I'll demonstrate the third way to import an image asset by loading an image 

file hosted on the internet. 

Instead of a local file, 

this time I want to display a random image URL from a photo hosting website. 

To do this, I create a variable by typing const than the variable name random image 

URL that I use the equals operator followed by the URL for the random image. 

I can now add my third image element inside the return statement. 

To do this, I add random image URL to the source attribute.

Play video starting at :3:11 and follow transcript3:11

So there you have it. 

The three different ways to use image assets in a react component.

## 摘要