## 字幕
Since the introduction of 

the smartphone and high-speed WiFi, 

we now enjoy creating, consuming, 

and sharing video and audio content daily on our devices. 

By the end of this video, 

you'll learn how React developers use 

audio and video assets within an app. 

You'll also explore how to find 

suitable React packages to use 

when working with audio and video files. 

Let's begin by exploring a method to load 

a local video asset into your React app using just HTML. 

You can use the readily available HTML5 video tag 

to load a local video asset to your React app. 

Like loading an image or any other kind of asset file, 

you can just declare a variable 

somewhere above a component's return statement 

and then add it as a JSX expression to the SRC attribute. 

However, this approach might not work as 

easily with some major providers of video content, 

such as one of the several social media 

and social video sharing platforms. 

In that case, you have the option 

of rolling out your own solutions. 

This may be a bit more involved than 

just adding a video tag to an app. 

It might depend on the specific instructions on how 

a given social media platform recommends that you 

embed the video and audio assets into websites. 

Very often, you'd get 

a code snippet that you can copy and paste. 

However, a specific implementation 

might be slightly different because you would, 

for example, like to add it 

as a separate React component. 

You might be wondering, why do you 

want to prepare it as a separate component? 

One of the reasons is that you'd be able 

to easily switch one video with 

another by passing the unique ID 

of a given video as a prop. 

You can then control the video output that way. 

So far, you've learned 

about two ways of adding videos to your apps. 

The first method involves just 

serving a local video using the video element, 

and the second method is 

using embedded third-party videos. 

There's another approach you may consider, 

namely using a third-party NPM package 

to streamline the process of adding videos to your app. 

The NPM package ecosystem is huge. 

If you visit the npmjs.org website, 

you'll find millions of various packages. 

To make it easier on yourself, 

type React video in the search bar of the 

npmjs.org website to find 

some of the frequently downloaded NPM packages. 

To choose the right one, 

you might want to check the frequency or updates. 

A package that's frequently maintained and has 

many contributors is usually 

a sign of a solid package to use. 

Additionally, make sure to 

check the packages GitHub page. 

Finally, you can also perform 

an Internet search for the package name. 

These actions will help you make 

an informed decision on which package to choose. 

An example of a package that fits 

all these criteria is the React player package. 

Visit the packages GitHub 

URL at github.com/CookPete/react-player. 

You'll find that they react-player 

package has over 6,000 stars, 

about 115 contributors, 

and that it's regularly maintained. 

What is the meaning of the stars? 

When a developer visits any repository on GitHub, 

they can show their appreciation of 

the project by clicking the Start button. 

This is known as starring a repo. 

This can be done for various reasons. 

But if a project has been starred many times, 

that's usually an indication of its popularity. 

These are all good signs. 

So if you want a custom open-source solution 

for your video needs in React, 

you can choose this package or a similar one. Great job. 

You now have a general idea of how to use 

audio and video assets in a React app, 

and how to find packages using npmjs.org and github.com.

## 摘要