## 字幕
by the end of this video you will know how to install the react player package and 

then use it to render a media player in react apps you'll also know how to apply 

several common settings and react player such as automatic playback and 

the starting volume. 

Let's examine another app that I've created using create react app. 

Currently it's pretty basic and only renders an 81 heading that reads react 

player example, let's make that heading true by adding in a video player. 

The first step of this process is to install the react player module and 

the second step is to import it into my app component. 

To install the module, 

I'll run the command npm install react player. 

Once it has finished installing the module becomes available to any component in 

my project but only if I import it. 

So I'll use the command import react player from followed by react player and 

double quotes. 

Now I'm ready to add the imported react player package as a component and 

render it from the app component. 

I also want to pre set a few settings for the player specifically to ensure that 

the video doesn't play automatically on the page loads and 

to have the starting volume at 50% of the maximum. 

To do that, I add some attributes to the react player tag playing equals and 

then false in curly braces and volume equals, followed by 0.5 in curly braces. 

For a complete list of settings you can refer to the react players. 

Get up documentation. 

You may have noticed that the react component also contains the line 

U R L equals video RL. 

This refers to the web link for the video which hasn't been set up yet. 

So let's add that link to the video RL 

variable now that everything is set up. 

I'll click file and save and 

then verify that everything works 

as expected in the browser. 

I can play the video, use the built in controls and 

the video starts at half the volume so it seems that everything is correct. 

Finally, you can find the projects get happy or 

L at dot com slash cook pete with a capital C and 

capital P slash react dash player. 

This page contains an about section on the right in which you'll find a link to 

the live demo on the link page. 

You can select from several video sources and 

change the video settings such as playback speed, light mode, loop and more. 

If you would like to know more about the react player. 

I recommend experimenting with these settings and consulting the projects. 

Get help documentation in this video. 

You learn how to install and use the react player package and 

change common settings for the react player

## 摘要