## 字幕
You've reached the end of this module 

on setting up navigation, 

updating, and using assets in ReactJS. 

It's now time to recap the key lessons you learned, 

and the skills that you gained. 

In the module, you explored the basics 

of single and multi-page navigation, 

as well as the conditional rendering or changing of 

content in response to user status or choice. 

The first lesson covered linking and routing 

of components in React for navigation. 

Website navigation is the part of 

any website that allows you to browse 

through various pages or links 

on that website from a single component. 

In modern website navigation, 

the user interface is all about functionality. 

You learned about the most common navigation components, 

like the horizontal navigation bar, or navbar. 

But of course, most websites have 

more complex navigation UI that include 

multiple navigation approaches in a single component, 

like combining a horizontal navbar 

with drop-down menu items. 

You learned that there's a key difference between 

the navigation of websites built with React, 

versus those built with HTML and CSS. 

With React-powered web pages, 

called single-page applications or SPAs, 

the entire app is loaded inside a single div, 

so you're not actually visiting 

different pages like you would 

with hyperlinks in HTML files. 

That's because a single-page application, or SPA, 

comes with its own special implementation 

of anchor tags and 

links that give the illusion of loading different pages. 

To achieve the solution of a multi-page websites, 

you learn that you need to add 

the React Router library to your React projects, 

and you practice using it to create and 

implement the basic navigation routes for our webpage. 

In this lesson's ungraded lab, 

you used code from the lesson item title to the navbar, 

and you had to add another link to the existing code. 

After this, you learned about conditional rendering, 

which is necessary for React to be able to 

dynamically change webpage content. 

As part of this section, 

you learned how to set up conditional rendering using 

ternary operators to write simplified FL's conditions. 

The second lesson focused on using assets in React. 

Here, you learn the assets of 

files that your app needs at run-time, 

like images, style sheets, 

fonts, video, or audio. 

You learned how developers keep 

assets organized in React, 

and about some common ways to import asset files. 

A common way to organize assets is to add 

an assets folder inside of the source folder, 

and keep all your app's assets there. 

Some assets can also be placed inside the public folder. 

The general rule for asset storage is 

that if your app can compile without it, 

you can keep it in the public folder. 

In this part of the module, 

you learned how to use embedded assets, 

and about the advantages and 

disadvantages of embedding assets, 

as well as about the trade-offs 

inherent in using asset-heavy apps. 

In the first ungraded lab of this lesson, 

you learned how to add an image from the assets folder 

that had already been added to the SRC folder. 

What's more, you also learned more about 

using audio and video assets in an app. 

Here you learned how to find 

suitable React packages to use 

when working with audio and video files. 

You learned about three ways 

of adding videos to your apps; 

by serving a local video using the video elements, 

using embedded third-party videos. 

We're using a third-party NPM package 

to streamline the process of adding videos to your app. 

Additionally, you learned what you can 

do to help you decide what package to use. 

You should check the frequency of updates, 

check the packages GitHub page, 

and perform an internet search for the package name. 

To help you become familiar with using such packages, 

you learned how to install a React player package, 

and use it to render a media player in a React app. 

You learned how to apply common settings 

like automatic playback and starting volume. 

Your final ungraded lab of 

the module was to finish an already-built app with 

a user interface that allows 

visitors to play bird sounds by pressing buttons. 

Now that you've completed the module, 

you should be able to describe navigation design in 

React with a focus on single and multi-page navigation, 

create and implement a root in the form of a navbar, 

demonstrate the conditional implementation 

and rendering of multiple components, 

explain the folder structure of a React project 

in terms of embedded or referenced assets, 

demonstrate how to manipulate 

image assets using reference paths, 

and use media assets such as audio and video with React. 

Congratulations. 

You've now covered most of the basic concepts in Reacts, 

and you're ready to complete this module's quiz 

and review the additional resources for this module. 

There's just one more module left 

before you complete this course. 

In the next module, 

you'll apply your knowledge by completing 

a mini-project in Reacts by building a calculator app.

## 摘要