# 2.7_Video_APIs

Imagine opening up the landing page of Facebook or Instagram and all you see is just emptiness because the things that fills the data in there, the photos and the words and the likes and the comments, all of those things are coming through the API.

Writing APIs with integrity, with efficiency is an important part of the application development process and without it, you basically don't have an application.
Play video starting at ::52 and follow transcript0:52
My name is Murtadha.

I'm a software engineer at Meta, working in the Seattle office.

The design process at Meta for APIs usually involves multiple iterations, just in the same way that when we write code, we get our peers and colleagues to review it.

We do the same with API.

Somebody or a group of people would usually write a document that's a proposal for how the API would be and what the structure is, what the agreements that each part of the application will make with each other.

Then that proposal is usually placed forward.

Other engineers will review it, they'll leave comments.

They'll say, this make sense, this needs to be changed, this is not good.

Then we iterate, we improve it.

Then when the API is looking good, it's in the final stage we then take it to the next step, which is building it.

The building process, the same thing happens.

We're going to review the code that is implementing the design that was created and there are comments and feedback and iterations.

Once that's complete, then we have our API ready.

Usually the process of developing an API involves engineers on all ends of the spectrum.

We would be talking to the front-end engineers and the back-end engineers and people working in the middle layer in-between as well to make sure that the APIs are consistent and make sense across the entire stack.

Basically, if you think about APIs to just simplify it, it's a way to talk to different things.

If you have your mobile phone, you have your application that you're holding in your hand, it has to talk to the server.

The way it talks to the server is through an API.

If you want to talk to something, you have to establish some understanding.

That understanding is established between the developers in order for it to be built into the application and reflected in the way that the API is designed.

There are few things we look for and follow when we're designing APIs.

One of them is ensuring type safety.

Type safety is basically a way to ensure that when you're fetching something from the back-end, you're going to get what you're expecting.

If you're requesting a photo that you actually do get a photo, not a video or something else.

That's an important part of designing API to make sure things don't break.

A lot of the application failures happen when there's a mismatch in the data.

Where you fetch something you expect a certain object and you get something else.

That type safety ensures these mistakes or problems are minimized and it increases the stability of an application when you have that consistent type safety across the stack.

One of the things that I usually struggle with when designing API is making it such that it will work for the future.

There's a little bit of a sweet spot to aim for with this that we can obsess about wanting to make our APIs very compatible with the future and trying to anticipate how the application will evolve, and we're going to need this and that, and let's make it right away.

But also sometimes that could be too much.

Finding that balance where you think about the future, but not so much such that you're holding yourself back from actually getting the work done.

It's just like with everything in life, you try to anticipate, but also you try to also focus on the problem in front of you now and how you can address it effectively.

I know APIs can be a little overwhelming at times, so I'm wishing you the best of luck.

Take your time to learn them and don't let that overwhelm you or intimidate you.

It's okay that when you're looking at APIs you're going to be venturing into the back-end.

Just know that you are taking on more scope and more complexity and that's going to be good for you because you will become more attractive to employers, you will expand your knowledge.

Don't let that intimidate you or hold you back.

It's going to be helpful to learn these skills and concepts.

The advice that I want to give myself and everybody who's thinking about APIs is to keep it simple.

Sometimes we tend to overthink too and try to cram so many things into APIs and try to make it very fancy and very using complicated and complex design patterns.

But actually simplicity, it is really important in API design and the readability of it is a big plus.

Keep it simple and try to keep it stable and free of bugs.