Wow, you've made it to the end of the course. Why don't you take a moment to congratulate yourself? After all, you've learned a lot in this course. Let's recap. In the very first module, you learned how HTML and CSS are used in the real-world. You also learned about semantic tags and how important a structured approach to creating a well-formed web pages. You learned about metadata and tags and how you can use them to influence your webpages ranking through search engine optimization or SEO. Now, that was important. After metadata and tags, you moved on to user input and forms and you created and tested a form by yourself. Well done. The last part of this module was about media elements and you ended on a high note by learning how to embed video and audio in a webpage. After media elements, you took a deep dive into CSS layout, grid, and flexboxes in the next module. Layouts are fundamental to designing a good webpage because they divide a page into different sections thereby making the viewport more presentable. I'm sure you learned a lot in this section about how to make sure that your user is always presented with a good viewport. The next section was about CSS selectors which correspond to specific elements or element groups in a HTML document. You learned that you can combine more than one selector, so you can apply rules to elements based on their relationship with one another. That's neat. With pseudo-class selectors, you can improve the interactivity of your webpages without having to add overly advanced styling. Ultimately, you should now know how to use CSS selectors like attribute selectors, to apply rules to different HTML elements with varying degrees of specificity. In the second last part of this module, you learned about keyframes, animations, and effects in CSS, essential knowledge and skills for any front-end developer. Let's refresh your memory about what those effects include. Think of sliding galleries, cursor effects, and the hover effect, which is very frequently used on web pages. While it's tempting to add lots of animations and effects, you should remember that it can be distracting for users and it may cause your web page to load slowly. The last part of the second module was all about how to use browser developer tools to assist with debugging HTML and CSS issues. Developers make mistakes all the time and they're a normal part of the process. Don't feel bad when you make a mistake. That's what debugging is for, to figure out where something went wrong and how you can fix it. Debugging can't happen without testing, and you also learned about UI Testing strategies such as cross device testing and a range of tools that can help eliminate problems encode. Wow, you covered a lot in this course. This might only be the start of your journey towards becoming a HTML and CSS developer, but you can be very proud of yourself for how much you've already learned and accomplished. Thank you. It's been a pleasure to embark on this journey of discovery with you.Best of luck in the future.