# 3.4_Video_Create a Controlled Form Component

Have you recently bought a product through an ecommerce sites or maybe you booked a table at your favorite restaurant? Well, if so, you may have received a friendly email afterwards providing a link to a specific page to provide feedback about the experience.

This is an example of a feedback form.

Now that you're familiar with controlled components in React, I'm going to demonstrate how you can build this functionality yourself.

You will also be using a range input and custom validation as part of building a feedback form.

Imagine little lemon, one of the best restaurants in town, would like to send their customers a feedback form.

Let's go ahead and implement a feedback form with React.

Note that in this example, the project has been created with Create React app.

I've also added some initial code that is a form with just a header and a submit button.

The requirements for this example are an interface that allows users to provide a score from 0-10 and then additional comment to tell the chef how delicious the food they enjoyed a few days ago was.

The first step is to implement a control for the score.

There are different ways you can do this, but I'm going to go and choose a range input for this use case, as it provides the user with a simple slider.

To do this, let's go ahead and create a new div to wrap the component.

This will consist of a label that I will name score, as well as an input whose type is going to be range.

Range inputs offered two prompts to define the range, min and max.

For this example, I will set the minimum to 0 and the maximum to 10.

The application is now displaying a user-friendly slider to provide the score.

To wrap up the range component, I need to do two more things.

Turn the input into a controlled components and visually show the numeric value that represents the slider selection.

For that, I will define a new piece of state called score that I will initialize to 10 because I know the chef's recipe is usually unbeatable, enabling the user to reduce the score down from 10 when they interact with the slider if they want to.

Now in the range input, I have to use the value prop to hook the state up and use onchange to receive the changes and update the state accordingly.

Since I also want the numerical score to be displayed with a slider, I'm going to add that information to the scored label along with a star, so the user interface or UI is clean and concise.

Great, the feedback form is starting to take shape.

Now let's implement the second element from the form a widget to provide an additional comment.

Although I could use a text input here, a comment could be very large.

So a more suitable choice is a text area.

For that, I will declare another state variable named comments that will be initialized to an empty string.

For the UI, I will create a new div with a label and a text area component for any additional feedback.

Now that that is rendered well, I need to hook up the state to the value prop and update the changes via onchange.

With that, the UI for the feedback form is finished.

The last thing I'd like to implement is some validation to ensure a comment is required when the score is equal to or lower than five, and that it should have at least 10 characters.

The chef receives honest feedback from users that can be used to improve his recipe.

For that, I'm going to use the onsubmit callback on the form component.

I will call prevent default first to avoid the default HTML form behavior then I'm going to write an if statement to check if the score is equal to or less than five and the comment has less than 10 characters.

If that's the case, I will show an alert to inform the user about the requirement and return from the function.

Otherwise, the user is good to go and I will log a message to confirm the successful submission of the feedback.

It's also a good practice to reset the form values after submission.

I'll set both pieces of state to their initial values.

There you go.

Everything is working well and the submission message is logged into the console.

You have learned how to build a feedback form with React using controlled components and custom validation to make sure users have a seamless experience.