# 1.3_Reading_Course-syllabus-for-React-Basics

By the end of this reading, you will have learned about the scope of things you will cover in this course. 

## Prerequisites

To take this course, you should understand the basics of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. 

Additionally, it always helps to have a **can-do attitude**!

## Course content

This course is an introduction to React development. 

You'll learn enough basic concepts to empower you to build simple user interfaces in React.

This course consists of four modules. They cover the following topics.

## Module 1: Anatomy of React

In this introductory module, you'll learn about what React is and where it is used. You'll also learn how to set up your coding environment so that you have as productive a learning experience as possible. 

So, the purpose of this module is to understand the what and the why, and to get set up for the modules that follow.

**Components are one of the foundations of React**. In React, everything revolves around components. You'll learn how to build components, how to structure and customize your React projects, and how to compose layouts by importing components into other components.

### passing data

You'll learn about passing data from one component to another. You'll learn about JSX syntax in React and how to use it to structure and style your components.


By the end of this module you will be able to:

- Explain the concepts behind React and component architecture.
- Describe how to use assets within an app to apply styling and functional components.
- Create a component to service a specific purpose.
- Create a folder and demonstrate how to create and import files within that folder.
- Use and manipulate props and components to effect visual results.

## Module 2: Data and State

The second module of this course deals with working with events and errors in React. You'll learn how events work and how you can handle them in React. 

Handling events can sometimes get a bit tricky, so you'll also learn about dealing with errors related to events in React.

By the end of this module you will be able to:

- Use common methods to manage state in React.
- Detail the concept and nature of state and state change.
- Describe the hierarchical flow of data in React.
- Describe how data flows in both stateful and stateless components.
- Use an event to dynamically change content on a web page.
- Describe some common errors associated with events and the syntax required to handle them.


## Module 3: Navigation Updating and Assets in React

In this module, you'll learn about routing and navigation in React. 

You'll learn how to render partial views and how to update routes in your React apps. You'll understand how assets are used, bundled and embedded.

By the end of this module you will be able to:

- Use media assets, such as audio and video, with React.
- Demonstrate how to manipulate image assets using reference paths.
- Explain the folder structure of a React project in terms of embedded or referenced assets.
- Demonstrate the conditional implementation and rendering of multiple components.
- Create and implement a route in the form of a navbar.
- Describe navigation design in React, with a focus on single and multi-page navigation.

## Module 4: Portfolio Mini-Project (Calculator App)

This module is focused on a practical mini project of building a calculator app in React. Upon completing this module, you'll have coded your own mini project in React, as a starting point for building your React portfolio.

You have now learned about the scope of things you will cover in this course.

By the end of this module you will be able to:

- Synthesize the skills from this course to create and style a React component.
- Reflect on this course's content and on the learning path that lies ahead.
  