In this video, you will further explore the concepts of 

components in React and learn how 

to create a component from scratch. 

You'll be introduced to the concept 

of the export statements and how 

components can be used to create reusable blocks of code. 

I've launched VS Code here, 

and I have the creating components 

folder open in the built-in terminal. 

Now, I'll execute the command npm init, React app dot. 

The dot character instructs VS Code 

to run this command in the current folder. 

In other words, I'm using 

Create React app to build 

a new app for me inside this folder. 

I execute this command by pressing the Enter key. 

I wait for the app to build, 

and once it's ready, 

I can start the app by typing 

npm then a space followed by start. 

The process of building 

the React app could take a couple of minutes, 

so just sit tight while it builds.

Play video starting at :1: and follow transcript1:00

Great. My React app has started and loaded in 

the browser at localhost:3000 which is the local server. 

Notice that I have all these files and 

folders in the left pane of VS Code now, 

such as node modules, 

public SRC, and files like package.json. 

You'll learn more about these later. 

For now, the only folder I need to 

work in as the SRC folder. 

Don't worry about all these other files and folders. 

Instead, I want you to focus on 

how to build a component in React. 

To do that, let's have a clean start.

Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34

The easiest way to do this is to remove all the code 

inside the function inside the app.js file. 

I guess you might say this is 

the simplest possible component. 

I'm declaring an app function and I'm 

exporting it as a default module. 

I save my file and notice that 

my app is just a blank page. 

Now, let me create another component that will 

contain some texts that I want to display in the browser. 

To do this, I create another function called header, 

and in the function body, 

I'll just return some greeting texts 

inside an H1 JSX elements. 

Inside the H1 I type, Hello world. 

My code looks good now, 

but my screen is still white. 

This is because I'm not yet 

rendering anything from my app function. 

To do this, I need to return to 

my app function and call the header function from it. 

I use the JSX elements syntax to 

render a component which is the name of my function. 

Inside the body of the app function, 

I create the return statement and type the function name 

of header inside left and right angle brackets, 

not forgetting to add the forward slash 

before the right angle bracket. 

Notice that the syntax to render a component is very 

similar to a self-closing tag in HTML. 

Press Control S or Command S, 

if you're on Mac to save everything again. 

Great, my code is working now. 

I notice in HTML heading with 

the text Hello World displayed in the browser. 

Congratulations. In this video, 

you'll learned how to create a functional components. 

These components named app calls, 

another component named header, 

which displays an HTML heading with some texts. 

At the moment, the header component code 

exists in the same file as the app component. 

To make the header component isolated and reusable, 

I need to place it in its own file. 

Then I can reuse it multiple times in 

the application anytime I want to 

display a heading element with some texts, 

and you'll learn how to do this very soon. 

In this video, you'll learn how to 

create a functional components in React, 

and render it to the root components named app.js.