# 3.1_Video_Why React Testing Library

As the developer for Little Lemon Restaurant application, how could you guarantee that the app you created works as intended? Well, you may choose to rely on your methodical ability to manually interact with all the different parts of the application yourself, ensuring the app is fully functional.

However, manually testing every new incremental change you'd like to make is likely to be tedious, error-prone, and time-consuming, especially as your app grows in complexity.

That's where automation tests come in.

In this video, you will learn how to write tests properly for your React components.

You will achieve this by exploring why testing is important, and best practices when creating tests.

Being introduced to the tools Jest and React Testing Library for structuring your tests.

As well as working through a practical example of testing a component using these tools.

Just like factories perform testing of the products they build to ensure that they work as expected, developers need to do the same with their code.

A well-designed suite of automation tests is particularly effective in allowing you to discover defects or bugs before delivery to the client.

In doing so, testing is important for guaranteeing the quality of the software you develop.

Further, by catching bugs before they find their way into a live application, testing reduces the number of user complaints, and can ultimately save an organization time and money.

- avoid including implementation details
- work with dom nodes
- resemble software usage
- maintainability
避免包含实施细节
使用 dom 节点
类似于软件使用
可维护性

Now that you have an idea of why testing is important, what are the best practices you need to keep in mind when writing your tests? The first is that your tests need to avoid including implementation details of your components.

React is just a tool, and your final users will have no notion that React exists at all.

Rather than dealing with instances of rendered React components, your tests should work with actual DOM nodes.

Secondly, the more you test resemble the way your software is used, the more confidence they can give you.



Finally, you also want your tests to be maintainable in the long term.

As long as you're not changing functionality, any changes in the implementation of the component won't break your tests and slow you and your team down.

Now, let's explore the two tools that React endorses to structure your tests, Jest and the React Testing Library.

Jest is a JavaScript test runner that lets you access an artificial DOM called JSDOM.

While JSDOM is only an `approximation` of how the browser works, it is often good enough for testing React components.

Jest provides a good iteration speed combined with powerful features like mocking modules, so you can have more control over how the code executes.

Recall that mocking refers to something made as an imitation, and enables you to replace complex functions from your code with others that are simpler and simulate the same behavior.

Mocking features can be used to make sure that your unit testing is standalone.

If you'd like to revisit the concept of mocking in greater depth, you can check out the additional resources at the end of this lesson.

The second tool is React Testing Library, which is a set of utilities that let you test React components without relying on their implementation details.

React Testing Library has been designed to fulfill all the best practices highlighted before, so that you get a well-configured testing environment out of the box, and are able to focus on the business logic your tests need to run assertions on.
React 测试库旨在实现之前强调的所有最佳实践，以便您获得一个开箱即用的配置良好的测试环境，并且能够专注于您的测试运行断言所需的业务逻辑。

With the theory covered, let's go ahead and implement a test from scratch using Jest and React Testing Library.

When you start a new project with Create React app, you already get both Jest and React testing library pre-installed by default.

Plus both tools are already pre-configured, and there's an example test file in your root folder called app.test.js.

Imagine that Little Lemon has made an agreement with a popular restaurant aggregator to have its webpage included as a new URL in its listing.

In the app.js file, the app component renders a link in the page that points to Little Lemon's webpage.

Let's go through the test I created to automatically verify that the link is always present.

The first thing I need to do is to import both render and screen from the React Testing Library.
我需要做的第一件事是从 React 测试库导入渲染和屏幕。

The render function is used to render the component you would like to test and perform assertions against.
render 函数用于渲染您想要测试的组件并对其执行断言。

Because querying the entire document.body is very common, React Testing Library also exports a screen object, which is a reference to that object, and has every query prebound to it, meaning that it will automatically ask the whole document when running a search.
由于查询整个 document.body 非常常见，React 测试库还导出一个 screen 对象，对该对象的引用，并且每个查询都预先绑定到它，这意味着在运行搜索时它将自动询问整个文档。

Now, to wrap the test scenario, just provides the global test function, which takes a text description as the first argument, and a function to compose all the steps your test needs to go through as a second argument.
现在，为了包装测试场景，只需提供全局测试函数，该函数将文本描述作为第一个参数，以及一个用于组成测试需要执行的所有步骤的函数作为第二个参数。

This function does not need to be imported since Jest injects it automatically in all your test files.
不需要导入此函数，因为 Jest 会自动将其注入到您的所有测试文件中。

The first step is to render the app component in the artificial DOM environment.

Secondly, I used the screen object to create a query `against` the document.body.

In this case, I am using the getByText utility to ask the body tag of the document if it can find an element inside with a string called Little Lemon Restaurant, and store the result of that finding in the link element object.
在本例中，我使用 getByText 实用程序询问文档的 body 标记是否可以找到其中包含名为 Little Lemon Restaurant 的字符串的元素，并将查找结果存储在链接元素对象中。

If the search is successful, getByText will return the found element.

Otherwise, it will return null.

Finally, to complete the test, I perform an assertion asking whether the link element from the query above is present in the document, meaning whether it's currently visible on the screen.

For that, the global expect function is used.
全局期望函数

This is another utility that Jest incorporates globally without the need for an explicit import.

The expect function receives the result of a query and appends the specific matcher.
Expect 函数接收查询结果并附加特定匹配器。

In this example, the matcher refers to an element visible in the whole document.

If I run the test, it fails.

Let's check the output logs to try to understand what has gone wrong.

It states that it was unable to find an element with a text, Little Lemon Restaurant.

Interesting.

Let's go ahead and check the app.js component again.

I had made a mistake and typed orange instead of lemon, something that the test was able to catch.

That's exactly where you want to see when a failure occurs.

Also, you might have noticed how straightforward it is to write your test assertions.

Everything you see in code translates nicely to how a real user would interact with your app and responds with the behavior that you would expect.

Let's run the test again now that the issue is fixed.

Great.

The test passes and Little Lemon's online exposure is about to grow even more.

In addition to the importance of testing and testing best practices, you have now learned how to test your React components using Jest and the React Test Library.

Stay tuned, because soon you will discover how easy it is to write more complex tests.

## 词汇

approximation 近似


I used the screen object to create a query `against` the document.body.
针对
我用 screen object 来创建一个`针对`document.body的查询