## 字幕

Hello and welcome to this course on HTML and CSS. 

Every day when you browse the Internet, 

you're interacting with HTML and CSS code. 

By now, you probably know 

a little bit about how that works. 

If you're taking this course, 

you want to find out even more. That's great. 

There will be a short overview of HTML and 

CSS just after this introduction. 

But first, let's briefly go 

through what you'll be doing in this course. 

You'll start off by learning how 

HTML is used in the real-world. 

This includes learning about 

semantic and Meta tags and the importance of 

having a structured approach so that you 

can create well-formed web pages. 

Next up are user input and forms. 

In this part of the course, 

you will create and test a form by yourself. 

You will learn about advanced input types, 

how to validate input, 

and provide feedback to improve 

the user experience of a form. 

But what would the web be without media? 

The next HTML section 

will focus on bringing websites 

to life with media elements. 

You will learn how to embed 

video and audio players and even iframes. 

Following the module about HTML, 

is when all about CSS. 

This part of the course will go beyond basic styling. 

You will learn how to create 

layouts with grids and flex boxes. 

You will also learn about CSS selectors and how you can 

combine them to refine 

the styling of elements on your web pages. 

Not only that, but you'll also learn how to use 

pseudo-class selectors to improve 

the interactivity of a web page. 

But there's even more. 

You will learn how to add effects 

on web pages using purely 

CSS and you will cover 

basic transform and transition animations, 

as well as more advanced animations using key frames. 

Next, you will learn how to use 

browser developer tools and 

UI testing to debug HTML and CSS code. 

The final part of the module is 

about the graded assessment. 

For this assessment, you will build a homepage 

for a fictional company and you'll get 

an opportunity to review your classmates projects 

as well since this is a peer graded assignment. 

There are many videos in the course that will 

gradually guide you towards 

your goal of becoming a developer. 

Watch, pause, rewind, 

and re-watch the videos until 

you are confident in your skills. 

Then consolidate your knowledge 

by consulting the course readings 

and putting your skills into 

practice during the course exercises. 

Along the way, you'll encounter several knowledge 

quizzes where you can self check your progress. 

Remember, you're not alone in 

considering a career as a developer, 

which is why you'll also work with course discussion 

prompts that help you to connect with your classmates. 

It's a great way to share knowledge, 

discuss difficulties, and grow 

a network of contacts in the web development world. 

You have probably encountered 

a few new words and technical terms in this video. 

Don't worry if you don't fully 

understand all these terms right now. 

Everything will become clearer soon. 

After all, this is part of 

the reason why you're taking this course.


## 摘要