## Prerequisites

To take this course, you don't need any developer experience, but you must be eager to get started with coding.

## Module 1

In the first module, you will start with an introduction to the course and gain insight into what your career path as an HTML and CSS developer might look like. You will also receive tips on how to take this course successfully. Then, you'll move on to semantic tags and the importance of taking a structured approach to creating a well-formed web page. After which you will learn about metadata and tags and how you can use them to influence your web page's ranking through Search Engine Optimization (SEO). Following this section, you will learn about user input and forms and you will create and test a form by yourself. In the final part of the module, you will learn about media elements and you'll learn how to embed video and audio on a web page. 

After completing this module you should be able to:

- Use common semantic and meta tags to improve the accessibility, readability and SEO of a web page.
    
- Create commonly-used web page layouts and components. 
    
- Create and test a form with client-side validation. 
    
- Recognize server-side connections and the languages used to carry out requests and responses. 
    
- Post form data to a server.
    
- Create a video and audio player that can rate the media played.
    

## Module 2

In module 2, you will focus on CSS layouts, grids and flexboxes. You will learn about fundamental layouts that you can use to design a good web page. Next, you will learn about CSS selectors which correspond to specific elements or element groups in an HTML document. In this section, you also learn about pseudo-class selectors that you can use to improve the interactivity of your web pages without having to add overly advanced styling. In this module, you will also learn about keyframes, animations and effects in CSS. The final part of this module is about how to use browser developer tools to assist with debugging and resolving HTML and CSS issues.

After completing this module you should be able to:

- Use Flexbox and CSS grids to create responsive layouts and charts.
    
- Use advanced CSS selectors such as pseudo-classes for targeted styling.
    
- Use CSS effects to introduce text effects, animations and transformations into your stylesheet.
    
- Create simple keyframe animations.
    
- Perform basic front-end testing, debugging and error handling.
    
- Adapt your CSS to perform as expected in different browsers.
    

## Module 3

In the last module, you will have an opportunity to recap what you learned in the course and put it into practice by creating a home page for a client persona.

After completing this module you should be able to:

- Apply the skills you learned in this course to introduce more advanced styling into your portfolio.



## 摘要