## 字幕
Little Lemon restaurant has hired a marketing firm to help them advertise 

their business. 

The firm recommends that the restaurant will run a social media campaign. 

So the owners of the restaurant asked me to make sure that the website is ready to 

be shared on different social media platforms. 

Now let's examine how to prepare a web page so 

it can be linked on social media platforms. 

I've opened index.html in visual studio code. 

At a minimum, I need to add four pieces of metadata required by the protocol. 

To do this, I add the four meta tags inside the head element. 

On the first meta tag, I add the property attribute and set its value to og:title. 

I then add the content attribute and set its value to our menu. 

This metadata is the title that will be displayed in the preview on the social 

media platform. 

It's important to note that this value should reflect the content of 

the individual web page and not the website as a whole. 

On the second meta tag, I add the property attributes and set its value to og:type. 

I then add the content attribute and set its value to website. 

This metadata informs the social platforms that this content being shared 

is a website. 

On the third meta tag, I add the property attribute and set its value to og:image. 

I then add the content attribute and set its value to logo.png. 

This metadata informs the social media platform what the preferred preview 

images. 

In this case, it will be good to display the Little Lemon restaurant logo. 

On the last meta tag, I add the property attributes and set its value to og:url. 

I then add the content attribute and 

set its value to the url of the Little Lemon website. 

The web page is now ready to be shared on social media platforms. 

However, there is some optional metadata I can add to provide additional information 

to the platforms. 

Since the platforms vary in what they display to their users, 

it's best to provide as much information as possible. 

I'll add three more or meta tags to the head element. 

On the first tag, I had the property attribute and 

set its value to og:description. 

I then add the content attribute and 

set its value to Little Lemon is a family-owned Mediterranean restaurant, 

focused on traditional recipes served with a modern twist. 

If the social media platform displays a description of the page when it is shared, 

this text will be displayed to inform the users what the web page is about. 

On the second tag, I add the property attribute and set its value to og:locale. 

I then add the content attribute and set its value to en_US. 

This will inform the social media platforms that the locale of the website 

is US English. 

On the last tag, I add the property attribute and 

set its value to og:site_name. 

I then add the content attribute and set its value to Little Lemon. 

Some social media platforms will also display the website name beside 

the page title. 

So this will ensure that the website title is correct. 

The Little Lemon website is now ready for its big social media campaign. 

Hopefully, this will lead to lots of new customers. 

In this video, 

you've explored a practical example of how to add open graph protocol metadata. 

You should now know how to add the four required meta tags title, type, 

image, and URL. 

You also learned how to add additional meta tags that provide extra information 

like the website description and locale. 

Well done.
## 摘要