## 字幕

The Little Lemon Restaurant has asked me to add a new blog page to their website. 

They've told me that the page will contain several blog posts, and 

that it must use semantic html so that search engines and 

accessibility software can understand the semantics of the page.

Play video starting at ::18 and follow transcript0:18

I've set up my basic html document structure in a file named blog.html. 

I'll start off by adding my basic semantic structure.

Play video starting at ::30 and follow transcript0:30

First I add the header element.

Play video starting at ::37 and follow transcript0:37

Followed by the nav element,

Play video starting at ::47 and follow transcript0:47

Followed by the main element.

Play video starting at ::53 and follow transcript0:53

Followed by the footer element.

Play video starting at ::58 and follow transcript0:58

Remember this structure describes the semantics of this html document. 

Specifically the header element will be used to display the Little Lemon logo, and 

the nav element will be used to describe the navigational structure of the website. 

The main element will feature the main content of the web page, and 

the footer will be used to display copyright information. 

When a search engine or accessibility software reads this document, 

the semantic tags will help the software understand the purpose and 

meaning of different sections of the document. 

I will now add the details to each element.

Play video starting at :1:33 and follow transcript1:33

Inside the header element, I add the Little Lemon logo using the image tag.

Play video starting at :1:44 and follow transcript1:44

Inside the nav element, 

I add the navigation links in an a ordered list element using the ul tag.

Play video starting at :1:52 and follow transcript1:52

I then add three list item elements using the li tag.

Play video starting at :2:3 and follow transcript2:03

Inside the list items, 

I add the hyperlinks for 

index.html, location.html and 

blog.html using the anchor tag.

Play video starting at :2:31 and follow transcript2:31

In the main element, I add an h1 tag for the blog heading.

Play video starting at :2:39 and follow transcript2:39

The restaurant told me that there will be two blog posts for their website. 

So I add two article elements after the h1 element.

Play video starting at :2:52 and follow transcript2:52

Inside the first article element, I add an h2 tag for the title of the blog post.

Play video starting at :2:59 and follow transcript2:59

The title is 20% off this weekend.

Play video starting at :3:6 and follow transcript3:06

I then add a paragraph element below the title 

which contains the blog post text.

Play video starting at :3:21 and follow transcript3:21

Inside the second article element, I add an h2 tag for 

the title which is our new menu.

Play video starting at :3:31 and follow transcript3:31

Again I add a paragraph element below the title which contains the blog post text.

Play video starting at :3:45 and follow transcript3:45

Finally, I add a paragraph element to the footer element.

Play video starting at :3:52 and follow transcript3:52

In this paragraph element, I add the copyright notice.

Play video starting at :3:56 and follow transcript3:56

The blog pages now semantically described through the html document. 

I now save the file by pressing Control and S or Command and S on Mac. 

I then right click the blog.html file and select live preview to preview the file.

Play video starting at :4:26 and follow transcript4:26

The blog page looks good and all thanks to proper semantic design that 

ensures accessibility and search engine optimization. 

I'm sure that the Little Lemon Restaurant will get lots of business through their 

blog, and 

their customers with disabilities will be able to access the blog with no problems

## 摘要