## 字幕
An important part of being 

a developer is not just the tools you use, 

such as your integrated development environment, 

but also the repository of knowledge 

and code templates you build up over time. 

In this video, 

I'm going to introduce you to one of these templates, 

which will help you get set up 

quickly for building webpages. 

Let's open Visual Studio Code to 

go through the templates step-by-step. 

In the folder, we have index.html 

along with the JS folder and a CSS folder. 

Inside the JS folder, 

there's a file named script.js. 

There is no content in this file. 

It is added to this folder so that you can 

easily add JavaScript code to the webpage. 

I recommend that you add 

any other JavaScript files to this folder too. 

Next, I'll open the CSS folder. 

In the folder there's a file named styles.css. 

Again, there is no content in this file, 

but it is here so that you can easily 

add CSS rules to the webpage. 

Again, it's best if you add 

any other CSS files also to this folder. 

I go back to my template folder and 

open it in Visual Studio Code. 

I open the index.html file. 

The file has a semantic HTML document structure set up. 

At the top, there is the DOCTYPE declaration 

followed by the HTML root element. 

Inside the root element, 

there are the head and body elements in the head element. 

The title and meta tags are 

already optimized for search engines. 

I recommend that you update the title along 

with the description and author meta tags. 

Below, are the Meta tags for the Open Graph Protocol. 

Don't worry about the details of these tags 

just yet as you learn about them in a later video. 

For now, the main thing to know is that 

if you plan on sharing the webpage on social media, 

you should remember to uncomment 

this HTML section and update the content attributes. 

The next block of commented out code is for icons. 

If you want to show an icon in 

the web browser tab for your website, 

you can update the href 

attributes here to point to your icon. 

Remember it you always link elements for 

the CSS style sheet to 

the last section of the head element. 

To speed things up for you, 

there is a link already set up to reference the 

styles.css file in the CSS folder. 

By now you can probably see how useful this template is. 

Let's continue to the body element. 

The body element already contains 

a basic semantic structure. 

This includes the header element 

for your website title or logo, 

the nav element for your website navigation, 

the main element for your main content, 

and the footer element for any copyright notices 

or links to secondary webpages. 

Below the footer element, 

you add script elements for JavaScript files. 

To make your life easy, 

a script element is already set up to reference the 

script.js file in the JS folder. 

With this template, you'll be able to 

quickly start building out webpages. 

It's worth keeping a copy of this template on 

your local machine to use 

and reference in future projects. 

In this video, you've been introduced to 

a semantic HTML template that you can 

use for building webpages. 

Good luck.
## 摘要