An important part of being 

a front-end developer is to provide 

a good user experience on 

the websites and web applications that you develop. 

That includes ensuring that users can 

complete HTML forms without issues. 

There are many web browsers 

available today for browsing the World Wide Web. 

However, each one is developed by 

a different company using different technologies. 

As a result, you will find that your HTML forms will 

appear differently when you view 

them on different web browsers. 

But a form may even appear differently on 

the same browser when you view 

the form on a Windows PC or a Mac. 

This makes the creation of 

a consistent user experience challenging. 

In this video, you will explore 

how form elements displayed 

differently on various web browsers 

and how to solve this problem. 

First, let's focus on 

the most common form element, the input elements. 

The same input type HTML code 

displays differently in web browsers such as Firefox, 

Microsoft Edge, Chrome, and Safari. 

For example, there are subtle differences in 

the height and corners of the input box. 

There is also a difference in 

the default input box widths of 

Firefox and Safari compared to 

other browsers like Microsoft Edge and Chrome. 

Safari on Mac OS differs a lot from 

the other browsers using 

a thinner border on regular corners. 

Next, let's explore the checkbox input type. 

Again, the exact same input type HTML code, 

will let the checkbox displayed differently in 

a checked and unchecked state in different browsers. 

Notice that Microsoft Edge 

uses a gray color in the check state, 

while the other web browsers use blue, 

even still, each browser 

is using a different shade of blue. 

Also notice how the border of 

the checkbox varies between each web browser. 

Safari's checkbox is also smaller than the other. 

Now that you've explored how HTML form elements 

can appear inconsistently across different web browsers, 

let's focus on how to solve this. 

As you know, CSS allows you to define 

the visual styling of HTML elements. 

Defining CSS rules for the different HTML form elements 

will ensure that your element is styled 

consistently across web browsers. 

For example, you can use elements selectors to select 

a different element types and 

apply CSS properties to them. 

It's also possible to study 

the individual input types using CSS rules. 

You can add a CSS rule using the element selector. 

To select the input HTML element, 

use the input element selector, 

and then specify the individual styling 

by adding a pair of square brackets, 

and then type equals in this case text or email. 

Then apply CSS properties to set the font, 

width, height, and border. 

If you specify styling with CSS in this way, 

the individual elements of your forms will 

display consistently across browsers. 

Luckily, there are a lot of resources 

that simplify the styling of forms. 

Popular libraries and frameworks 

such as Bootstrap, Tailwind CSS, 

and Foundation provides CSS rules for forms, 

uninsured visual consistency across 

different devices and browsers. 

You should now know why it is important to pay attention 

to the appearance of different HTML elements 

across web browsers, 

and how you can ensure consistency with CSS rules.