# 1.1_Video_Revising useState hook


Imagine that Little Lemon needs a way to track the restaurant's food inventory in this video.

You'll work through some practical examples using an app built for Little Lemon to revise the used state hook and explore how the useState hook is invoked, you'll examine the return values of the useState hook and how it's used to update state.

You are probably already familiar with a used state hook which is used to work with state in a react component with state being all the data and app is working with at a given time.

But before moving on to use state, let's revisit the concept of a radi structuring, recall that a raid is structuring is a way to get individual items from an array of items and save those individual items as separate components.

Now let's explore this concept with a practical example.

Say you're coding an app that tracks current food reserves in Little Lemons pantry, you're using a variable to keep all the veggies in an array.

As you continue to code, you realize you need to get each item from the array into its own separate variable.

For the first item in the array, you want to name the variable V1 as in veggie one, the second item.V2 and so on.

With a radi structuring, you can do this easily using a single line of code for more information on a radi structuring, you can refer to the additional resources at the end of this lesson.

 Note that with a radi structuring, you're free to give any variable name to the items that you D structure from an array.

 However, when the structuring objects, you have to d structure a property of an object using that exact properties name as the name of the d structured variable.

 This makes objects a lot stricter in terms of what you can name your D structure variables.

 For that reason, react uses the array data structure for the used state hooks return value.

 Now that you've had a sneak preview of the return value of the useState hook.

 Let's explore how it actually works.

 I will demonstrate how to update state and react apps by using the use state hook to set the initial value of the restaurant name to Lemon and then using only the use state updating function to update it to little Lemon.

 The use state hook allows you to work with state in components.

 Let's start discussing state by revising what happens when I called the youth state hook.

 I'm only returning null from here because I want to focus on the console for now inspecting the console.

 This is what gets logged.

 The console logged value is an array with the state variables value being the first item in the array.

 The second item in the returned array is the function that will be used to update the state.

 So the use state hook invocation returns a two member array.

 The convention is to name the state updating function using camel case.

 Another convention is to name it by pre pending the words set to the variable name used for the D structured state variable.

 In other words, the correct way to work with state means that by starting code example should be improved to correctly D.

 Structure the array returned from the call to the useState hook.

 Now the D structured restaurant name variable holds the state and the D structured set.

 Restaurant name variable holds the state updating function.

 This is an example of a radi structuring using the used state hook.

 You may be wondering how you can update state Well when first starting to use the use state hook.

 Some developers try to update the state variable in a variety of ways, but there is only one correct way to update state when using use state and that's through the state updating function.

 In other words, the only way to update the state of the restaurant name variable is by invoking the set restaurant name function in a react app state changes are usually triggered through the act of a user interacting with the app.

 This means that state changes are usually triggered by user generated events.

 These events such as mouse movements, button clicks and key presses happen all the time.

 In an app, the role of the developers to respond to specific kinds of events in a way that's meaningful to the app.

 That's being coded.

 One common way users interact with web apps is through button clicks.

 So let's examine an example of changing state in response to these user generated events, namely button clicks.

 In this example code I'm adding a button which when clicked will execute a function.

 This function is update restaurant name which is invoked wherever I user clicks on the button.

 Now when I click the update restaurant name button that will change the H.

 One heading from Lemon to Little Lemon.

 Because the invocation of the update restaurant named function triggered a call to the set restaurant name state setting function.

 You should now be able to recall what they used.

 State hook is used for and how it works in practice.

 I hope that working with the useState hook will be a fuss free task for you going forward especially when working with primitive data types to track state in a component.

