Congratulations on completing the introduction 

to web development course. 

You've worked hard to get here and 

developed a lot of new skills during the course. 

You should now have a great foundation of 

front-end web development skills that you can build on. 

You've also demonstrated your skill set 

by editing and styling 

a web page in the graded assessment. 

Following completion of the first course, 

you are now able to describe the web developer job role, 

distinguish between front and 

backend and full stack developers, 

explain how data moves through the Internet, 

and describe the technologies that underpin the Internet. 

The key skills measured in the lab showed your ability 

to use HTML to create a simple web page, 

use CSS to define the style of a simple web page, 

outline the concepts that exist in most UI frameworks 

using Bootstrap as an example 

to directly reference common practice. 

You use the Bootstrap CSS framework to create web pages. 

In addition, you should now have the ability to use 

Bootstrap documentation to reproduce 

and modify CSS components, 

use Bootstrap themes to speed up your workflow, 

and describe the basics of React in 

relation to other frameworks and web technologies. 

What are the next steps? 

Well, this is the first course in 

the Meta front-end developer professional certificate. 

While you've established a good foundation so far, 

there's still more for you to learn. 

If you've enjoyed this course and want to discover more, 

why not enroll in the second course? 

Throughout each of these courses, 

you'll continue to develop your skill set. 

In the final assessment, 

you'll bring together all the skills you've learned 

and create your own fully functional website. 

Whether you're just starting out as 

a technical professional or student, 

this project will prove your knowledge of 

the values and capabilities of React. 

You'll have a functional website to include in 

your portfolio to demonstrate 

your skills to potential employers. 

This shows employers that you 

are self-driven and innovative. 

It also speaks volumes about you as 

an individual and your drive to continue your growth. 

Once you've completed all the courses 

in this professional certificate, 

you'll receive a Coursera certification 

for Meta front-end developer. 

Meta certifications provide 

globally-recognized and industry-endorsed evidence 

of mastering technical skills. 

Congratulations once, again, 

on reaching the end of this course. 

It's been a pleasure to embark on 

this voyage of discovery with you. 

Best of luck, and do 

continue to follow your learning journey.