# 10 Tips for Developing Resilience

ERIN FALCONER/DECEMBER 29, 2010

Resilience or the ability to ‘bounce back’ after encountering problems is an essential trait. Inevitably, life will throw up some apparently adverse situations, and being able to deal with such circumstances in a positive and creative way is often a measure of how happy and successful a person is

Scientific studies have shown that resilient people show lower levels of depression and are more likely to develop personally as a result of adversity than people with low levels of resilience.

Some people do seem to be more resilient by nature but, like most things, resilience is a trait which can be developed. The following are ways of doing so.

1. **Bold text startDevelop a positive self image.Bold text End** Everything starts in the mind – resilient people think well of themselves and see themselves in a positive way.
2. **Bold text startFocus on building and maintaining relationships.Bold text End** Studies have shown that resilient people tend to have strong social networks – family, friends and colleagues are a great source of support when crises occur.
3. **Bold text startShow appreciation.Bold text End** Being able to focus on the good things in your life and not dwell on problems will keep you in a positive mindset and help you to be more effective.
4. **Bold text startSee the good.Bold text End** We’ve all heard the ‘glass half full’ mentality – resilient people tend to see stressful events or crises as temporary or even as opportunities to learn and grow, rather than as unbearable problems.
5. **Bold text startBe proactive.Bold text End** The holocaust survivor, Viktor Frankl, noticed that people in the camps who believed they had some measure of control over their circumstances were far more likely to survive than people who felt they were passive victims of circumstance. Resilient people take responsibility and take effective action to change things.
6. **Bold text startAccept circumstances that cannot be changed.Bold text End** Some things simply cannot be altered and resilient people accept this, not wasting energy on trying to do the impossible.
7. **Bold text startDevelop goals and take appropriate action to achieve them.Bold text End** Having a sense of where you are going is important. Glitches and setbacks are inevitable, but resilient people keep the destination in mind.
8. **Bold text startTake a long-term view and keep in mind a broader context.Bold text End** When seen from a bird’s eye perspective, problems tend to become less important
9. **Bold text startBe optimistic.Bold text End** Resilient people maintain a hopeful outlook, expecting positive outcomes. Of course, this can tip over to a ‘Pollyanna’ mentality but it is no more realistic to be negative and pessimistic than to expect the best.
10. **Bold text startKeep learning.Bold text End** Resilient people are determined to learn useful lessons from setbacks and problems. Looking back, we might realize that we learned the most from what seemed to be the most difficult of circumstances.

Resilience is very often the factor which leads some people to overcome immense obstacles to become successful. Look at many well known, successful and wealthy people with humble or even deprived beginnings and you will see resilience in action. Take steps to develop resilience in your own life – it will serve you well.