## MINDS ON 专心致志

### Resilient storytelling

In the previous learning activity, you explored the idea that being a life-long learner requires both motivation and resilience. In this learning activity, you will consider resilience from a different perspective. You will focus on how telling and sharing stories relate to resilience.
在本次学习活动中，您将从不同的角度考虑韧性。
您将重点关注讲述和分享故事与韧性的关系。

Get started by exploring the following 60-second life stories.


### Think

These video clips are just two of the many stories available online. Research additional stories, or think about recent stories you may have encountered. Consider the following questions.

- Are there stories that affect you more than others? Consider why this may be.
- How might storytelling help build resilience? Think back to the synonyms for resilience and adversity at the beginning of the course.

### The personal essay

Storytelling is an important tradition for many cultures and people around the world. Some believe that it is ingrained into our DNA as human beings. Next, you will be exploring a specific type of storytelling form: the personal essay. You are probably most familiar with formal essays. Personal essays are similar, but not the same. Select the following tabs to learn more.

ingrained 根深蒂固


A personal essay is told with ==descriptive== details and is similar to a personal story or memoir.

> The core of a personal essay is inward reflection about yourself. This includes insights you have gleaned about your abilities and strengths, significant personal growth you made and what you still need to work on.
> 
> Source: Seattle PI

descriptive 描述性的

个人论文的核心是对自己的内心反思。
这包括您收集到的关于您的能力和优势的见解、您取得的重大个人成长以及您仍需要努力的方面。


#### formal essay
Like a formal essay, a personal essay conveys a specific point of view or thesis. The thesis can be explicit, but more often it has to be inferred by the reader.
论文可以是明确的，但更多时候必须由读者推断。

> In a formal essay, a reader is presented with evidence and a conclusion; 
> 
> in a personal essay, a reader is treated to the author wrestling with a problem…. 
> Personal essays work best when they are interesting and entertaining but more so when they provoke a response, whether sympathy or outrage or laughter or head-shaking astonishment.
> 
> Source: Best Canadian Essays 2017

在正式的论文中，向读者提供证据和结论；
在一篇个人论文中，读者会看到作者正在努力解决一个问题…… 
当个人文章有趣且有趣时，效果最好，但当它们引起反应时，效果更佳，无论是同情、愤怒、笑声还是令人摇头的惊讶。


## Action

### Storytelling through personal essays

Storytelling is a way to persevere and ensure that a part of us survives and thrives.

Author Ursula K. Le Guin says, "there have been great societies that did not use the wheel, but there have been no societies that did not tell stories."

Reading stories in the form of personal essays that describe what it’s like to face challenges can broaden our understanding of what it means to be resilient and human.

Consider the following tree diagram to explore how personal essays fit with other forms of descriptive and narrative writing. This is not an exact science. In most writing, you’ll often find the branches overlapping. As such, the personal essay borrows from written forms like short stories, memoirs, and other essay structures.