You've reached the end of 

this introductory module on HTML5 and CSS. 

It's now time to review what 

you've learned in these lessons. 

This module started with a lesson on the basics of 

HTML or Hypertext Markup Language. 

You began this lesson by exploring the answer 

to the question, what is HTML? 

You learned to, describe 

the purpose of HTML in a web browser, 

demonstrate the use of HTML tags, 

including how to ensure that you use the correct syntax, 

identify how HTML elements 

are utilized in a web document. 

You also explored, HTML documents, 

and you should now be able to 

outline the structure of an HTML page, 

including the root, head, 

body and other elements, 

demonstrate how to build basic HTML documents by 

combining common key elements and 

tags in order to create a structure, 

and explain how to create a link between 

HTML documents with the use of 

an H ref or hypertext reference attribute, 

to redirect users between the documents. 

You should also be able to add 

images to a web page with HTML code, 

utilize HTML to manipulate data in tables, 

and build HTML forms with a wide range of input types. 

You then moved on to study 

the Document Object Model or DOM, 

a tree structure or model of objects in an HTML page. 

During your investigation of the DOM, 

you learned how to, 

explain what the DOM is, 

and the purpose that it serves with an HTML document, 

demonstrate how the DOM is created from 

an HTML page by exploring the element that generate it, 

and visualizing it in diagram form, 

and provide a high level description of common instances 

in which web developers 

interact with the DOM through JavaScript. 

These include, updating content, 

setting up events, and animating HTML elements. 

You also explored the concept of web accessibility 

by exploring how people with disabilities can understand, 

navigate, and interact with websites. 

Following your exploration of this topic, 

you should now be able to, 

demonstrate high level knowledge of 

assistive technologies used to 

browse the web like screen 

reading and speech recognition software, 

make use of basic techniques to 

improve the accessibility of your web projects, 

such as correct HTML structure. 

Following this Introduction to HTML5, 

you then covered a lesson on the basics of 

CSS or Cascading Style Sheets. 

The lesson began with an overview of 

selecting and styling in which you 

learn to write CSS rules in 

order to style elements within HTML document, 

demonstrate and understanding of 

the box model and its key features, 

and explain the concept of document flow. 

You then demonstrated your skills in 

these topics by creating a biographical webpage, 

the first of many webpages you'll 

create in this specialization. 

You should now be familiar with the basics 

of HTML5 and CSS. 

Well done. You're making 

good progress on your learning journey.