## 字幕

In this course, you learned about 

the basics of working with React. 

Let's take a few moments to recap 

the key topics that you learned about. 

In the opening lesson, 

you received an introduction to React. 

During this introduction, you learned about React, 

became familiar with how React is used in the real world. 

You learned how to make the most of the content in 

this course to ensure that you succeed in your goals. 

You then moved on to the next lesson in 

which you learned about React components. 

In this lesson, you learned how to explain components, 

their architecture, and how they are rendered. 

Create components and update them using JSX. 

Describe how folders are structured in 

a React project and how this benefits developments. 

You then demonstrated your knowledge 

of how to import components. 

In the next lesson, you explored how 

to use components in greater detail. 

This means that you can now declare functional components 

with props and pass them to another components. 

Use JSX to add styling to components. 

Save styles so that they can be reused 

later and embed JavaScript expressions in attributes. 

Next, you began the second module, 

which was focused on the roles of 

data and state in React. 

In the first lesson of this module, 

you learned about dynamic events and how to handle them. 

You can now identify the most common types of events. 

Use some common event handlers in your code. 

Use different types of syntax to write event handlers and 

you demonstrated understanding of 

the concept of user triggered events. 

You then learned about the relationship 

between data and events. 

As a result, you can now 

describe how data flows between parent and 

child components and explain 

the concept of states in React and how it is managed. 

You were also introduce to hooks and now that you 

can use them to extend the functionality of state, 

and you were able to identify 

some common use cases for 

stateful and stateless components. 

In the third module, you were introduced to navigation, 

updating, and assets in React. 

By completing the first lesson, 

you can now identify 

the basic types of navigation on websites. 

Create a basic navigation routes 

within React router library. 

Explain how components can be rendered conditionally. 

Use several different approaches to 

set up conditional rendering logic. 

In the final lesson of this module, 

you explored assets in React and how to use them. 

You can now explain what assets 

are and the best ways to store them. 

Use assets that are embedded in 

data files and use 

audio and video assets in your components. 

You've reached the end of this course recap. 

It's now time to try out what you've learned 

in the graded assessment. Good luck.
## 摘要