## 字幕

The average person doesn't know 

much about what happens behind 

the scenes when they browse 

the Internet on their phone or computer. 

But as an aspiring developer, 

you are aware of how the content on screen is 

controlled by HTML and CSS. 

By now you know that HTML is 

a markup language used to create webpages. 

In fact, it's the most basic and fundamental language 

for creating webpages. 

Together with CSS, it has helped 

the web browser expand beyond just desktop computers. 

HTML has been around since 1990, 

and it was originally designed to provide a way for 

people to share information over the Internet. 

HTML webpages used to only show basic images and text. 

The websites you browse today are very different. 

This is because HTML can do much more than 

just defining how content is displayed in the browser. 

HTML is great, but together with CSS, 

it can do so much more. 

CSS is a stylesheet language that is used to 

describe the look and layout of 

a document written in HTML. 

While CSS is not a programming language, 

it does allow for some programming like features, 

such as variables and nested rules. 

What it does is gives you control over color, 

size, spacing, fonts, positioning, and more. 

One of the fundamental principles of 

CSS is the separation of content and style. 

That means you can change 

a webpages appearance without 

editing its underlying HTML. 

W3C, the organization 

responsible for standards for the worldwide web, 

manages both HTML and CSS specifications. 

They continually improve their capabilities to ensure 

that they are always oriented 

towards current requirements. 

Many new features were added to the current version of 

HTML that make it easier to use than previous versions. 

These are better support for 

multimedia content such as audio and video, 

improved support for responsive design such as adopting 

the webpage layout depending 

on the device the webpage is viewed on, 

new form input types such as sliders and range inputs, 

date and color pickers, 

new form validation features, 

and new ways to work with 

texts such as spell checking and text editing. 

Some major additions released for CSS 

in 2011 ensure that CSS can 

style and control a website regardless of 

the media content or 

the device used for viewing the page. 

The additions to the current version are; media queries, 

which allow for different styles to be applied depending 

on the device being used; box sizing, 

which allows developers to specify how 

they want their content to be sized and padded; 

multiple backgrounds, which means you can 

specify multiple background images for an element; 

border images, which allow 

developers to specify an image as 

a border instead of a solid color or 

style; text shadows, 

which means you can add shadows behind 

text for a more three-dimensional look; 

and transformations and transitions, 

which allow developers to animate elements on a webpage. 

In essence, the combination of HTML and CSS allows 

websites to adapt their design and 

layout based on the devices on which they're viewed. 

While this feature was initially used to support 

mobile devices like cell phones and tablets, 

the usage of HTML and CSS has grown 

beyond the traditional web browser and webpages. 

Today, webpages can be 

viewed not only on computers, cell phones, 

and tablets, but also on 

video game consoles and even smart TVs. 

The web browser has truly 

expanded beyond traditional desktop devices, 

and it's all thanks to the combination of HTML and CSS.

## 摘要