## 字幕

Perhaps you know a little about 

HTML and CSS from another course you did, 

or perhaps you don't know much at all. 

Either way, a quick summary will be useful. 

So let's explore some basic HTML 

and CSS principles and practices. 

HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. 

But what does that mean? 

Hypertext is text which contains links to other text. 

Markup refers to tags and 

elements used within a document. 

HTML elements with their opening and closing tags 

in angle brackets make up an HTML document. 

These elements form the structure of 

a webpage and describe 

what to display to the web browser. 

When it comes to HTML, 

it's important to know about 

the purpose of HTML in the web browser. 

The use of HTML tags and correct syntax, 

and how HTML elements are used in a web document. 

But what can you do with HTML? 

You can add images to a web page with HTML code. 

You can use it to display data in tables, 

and you can build forms with a wide range of inputs. 

Also, using the correct HTML structure 

and appropriate elements as 

a foundation is an essential part 

of building accessible websites. 

HTML can assist in 

ensuring web accessibility by supporting 

the technology people with disabilities use to 

interact with and understand websites. 

Another important concept to 

know about when you're talking about 

HTML is the Document Object Model or DOM. 

Users need to be able to 

interact with elements on a web page. 

This means that HTML document must be 

represented in a way that 

JavaScript code can query and update it. 

That's the function of the DOM. 

It's a model of the objects in your HTML file. 

Web developers interact with the DOM 

through JavaScript to update content, 

set up events and animate HTML elements. 

Now that you've covered the basics of HTML, 

let's move on to CSS or Cascading Style Sheets. 

If HTML is the frame and structure of a building, 

then CSS is the paint, 

wallpaper, fixtures, and overall style. 

CSS tells the web browser how to 

display HTML elements on screen. 

You use CSS to style elements within an HTML document, 

create an appealing layout for 

your webpage using the box model, 

and arrange page elements using normal document flow. 

That was your HTML and CSS refresher. 

Now get ready to dive deeper into 

learning more about these two topics.

## 摘要