Little Lemon restaurant is becoming 

very popular in their local area, 

so much so that they've opened 

a second Little Lemon in another area nearby. 

Because of this, they want to update 

the form of their table booking system. 

In this video, you will learn how to add 

advanced HTML features to a form. 

They've also added some new tables to the restaurant. 

They've also asked to replace the table size field with 

a field for the number of people 

and to remove the table location field. 

Finally, they want customers to be 

able to choose which restaurant they want to book at. 

The owners have told me that they're hoping for 

continued success and growth of the business, 

and so I should plan 

for more restaurant locations to be added. 

I opened booking.html in Visual Studio Code. 

I'll start by deleting the previous 

table and location fields. 

I then add three div elements for the new fields.

Play video starting at :1:6 and follow transcript1:06

Next, I'll add the field for the booking date. 

Luckily, HTML provides a built-in field type called 

date that'll present a calendar 

to the customer when the field is clicked. 

To add this, I add an input element to 

the first div element and set its type attribute to date. 

I also set the ID and name attributes to booking_date.

Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34

To provide a good user experience, 

I'll add a label element before the input element. 

Inside the label element, 

I add the text description, booking date. 

I also add the for attribute 

and set its value to booking_table 

so that accessibility software can describe 

the purpose of the input field to its users. 

Next, I'll add the field for the number of people. 

The restaurant has told me that 

the maximum booking is 10 people, 

so I'll use the range input type. 

The range type allows me to specify 

the minimum and maximum values of the field. 

I add an input element to the second div element. 

I set its type attribute to range. 

I also set its ID and name attributes to booking_people.

Play video starting at :2:22 and follow transcript2:22

To set the minimum value, 

I add the attribute min, 

which is short for minimum, 

and set its value to one. 

Then to set the maximum value, 

I add the attribute max, 

which is short for maximum, 

and set its value to 10. 

Again, to provide a good user experience, 

I add a label before the element 

and set its content to number of people. 

I then set the for attribute to booking_people.

Play video starting at :2:53 and follow transcript2:53

Now, I'll add the new location field. 

The restaurant currently has two locations, 

but they said they might add more later. 

To allow for expansion later, 

I'll use a data list, input type. 

The data list input type allows me to specify a list of 

available options that will appear in a drop-down list. 

There can be tens and hundreds of options, 

so the field allows the user to begin typing, 

and it will narrow down the 

available options based on their input. 

Since there are only two locations so far, 

the customer will be able to select 

their location from the drop-down list. 

When more locations are added later, 

the customer will be able to begin typing their location 

and quickly select their location 

from a reduced set of options. 

Setting up the data list input type 

requires a few more steps than the other input types. 

First, I add an input element. 

Then I set the name and ID 

attributes to booking_location.

Play video starting at :3:52 and follow transcript3:52

Then I add an attribute called 

list and set its value to locations. 

This value is important for the next step. 

I then add a data list element and set 

the ID attribute to match the value 

of the list attribute on the input element. 

In this case, I set the ID attribute to locations. 

Inside the data list element, 

I then add two option elements.

Play video starting at :4:22 and follow transcript4:22

On the first option element, 

I add the value attribute and set it to Downtown. 

On the second option element, 

I add the value attribute and set it to Uptown.

Play video starting at :4:36 and follow transcript4:36

Again, to provide a good user experience, 

I add a label before 

the input element and set its content to location. 

I then set the for attribute to booking_location.

Play video starting at :4:54 and follow transcript4:54

I save the file, and open it in live preview.

Play video starting at :5:4 and follow transcript5:04

When I click on the date field, 

the browser opens a calendar 

and allows me to select a date.

Play video starting at :5:12 and follow transcript5:12

The range input type is presented as a slider 

that I can slide left and right to the value I want. 

Finally, the data list input 

allows me to select an option for 

the location or begin 

typing to narrow down the available options.

Play video starting at :5:36 and follow transcript5:36

In this video, you learned how to use 

advanced features of HTML forms. 

You should now be able to add a calendar, 

create a slider with values, 

and add a datalist that allows users to either select 

an option from the drop-down list 

or by typing their option. 

With the continued success of Little Lemon, 

I'm sure I'll be updating 

this form again in the near future.