## 字幕
I'll now demonstrate how you can use react to build a simple calculator app that is 

able to perform addition, subtraction, multiplication and division operations. 

I have some code for this app already written. 

However, because it's incomplete, it encounters problems when it compiles. 

The first problem is that useRef is not defined. 

So I'll import to useRef to fix that issue and then press control s to recompile. 

The second problem is that the useState hook is not defined so 

let's import that as well. 

And when I recompile once more, the problems should be resolved. 

So the structure of the app is there but currently, 

it can only perform addition so I need to add the other functionalities. 

Let's start by examining what I have for the plus function. 

It runs the prevent default function on the receive event object. 

And then it invokes a function for updating the state variable. 

I can use this as a template for the other functions I will write. 

So I will copy and paste this code into the functions I've started. 

In the minus function, I update result plus number to result minus number so 

that it subtracts whatever is in the input. 

In the times function I update the same snippet to result asterisk number. 

And finally, for the divide function, I use the divide operator or 

forward slash to make it result slash number. 

Now, I also have two functions called reset input which sets the input 

value to zero and reset results which sets the result value to zero as well. 

Reset input needs to run prevent default and 

I follow this with inputRef.current.value=0. 

For reset results, I use a different approach. 

I have it run prevent default but then instead of setting the value to 

zero directly, I have it multiplied the previous value by 0. 

I type this as set result followed by an arrow function that 

directs prevVal to return prevVal times 0. 

Now, if I go to the return statement of the app component, I find that I need 

to add the value of the current total as a JSX expression, so I type result. 

I can condense this code to a single line, so I'll do that. 

Next, I have to add buttons to trigger the functions that I've written. 

I paste in five button components that I've written previously, 

each of which is bound to an on click event. 

This component is written for the plus function so that is already taken care of. 

I'll update the other button components by changing the function that is called for 

each one as well as the text displayed on the button. 

So the second button calls the minus function. 

The third button calls times. 

The fourth course divide, the fifth one calls reset input and 

the final button calls reset results. 

Now, I press control s to save my changes.

Play video starting at :3:22 and follow transcript3:22

I'm ready to test out my app so I type 2 in the input fields and 

then click on the add button. 

The result changes from 0 to 2 and then adding 2 again, updates it to 4. 

Next, if I type 1 and then click on subtract, the result becomes 3. 

If I enter 10 in the input field and click on multiply, 

I end up with 30 as the new result. 

And now, if I type 6 and click on divide, I get a value of 5. 

Finally, I can click reset inputs to set the value in the input field to 0. 

As well as click reset results to clear the results and 

bring it back to 0, and that's it. 

My code is complete and my app works as per the requirements.

## 摘要