In programming, there is something known as the programming paradigms. 

You can think of this as a classification, a style or 

just a general way to write code. 

You may already be familiar with one of these paradigms. 

Functional programming, in this video, you will learn about another popular one. 

The object oriented programming paradigm, often referred to as OOP. 

OOP revolves around the idea of organizing our programs using objects 

to group related data and functionality. 

This is in contrast to the functional programming approach, where the data used 

in the app needs to be kept separate from functions that operate on that data. 

Let's explore this concept further using some code examples from the two paradigms, 

suppose we are asked to write some code that calculates the total cost of 

buying a pair of shoes. 

The code needs to calculate the total price which is the shoes multiplied 

by the tax amount. 

To code this solution, you decide that you need variables to store the values for 

shoes and tax and total price. 

You need a function which you will call total price to perform 

the calculation of multiplying the shoes by the tax. 

Finally, you need to be able to output the result. 

Using the functional programming approach, 

you clearly separate a program's data from functions that work on that data. 

With the OOP approach, you create an object and store all data related to 

that object including variables, functions and output statements. 

For example, you create an object named purchase one. 

You may recall that functions inside objects are known as methods. 

Now that the purchase 1 object is created. 

You access the total price method on the purchase1 object using the dot notation. 

Then, you invoke the total price method which works with data inside 

the purchase 1 object and returns the result of 120. 

In fact, you can access any data that the purchase 1 object has. 

For example, using the dot notation, 

you can access the shoes price data and the state tax data. 

An advantage to using the OoP approach is that you can build as many 

objects as you need. 

For example, you can build another purchase object and name it purchase2. 

Once created, you can also access the total price method on the purchase2 

object just like you did on the purchase 1 object previously. 

You may notice, that the total price method was almost the same in both 

the purchase 1 and the purchase 2 objects. 

This means that you can improve the objects so 

that both methods are identical. 

And you can do that by using this keyword which you may recall. 

It essentially means this object. 

It's important to note that the code still works exactly the same as before. 

Okay, so you may be wondering why did I go through the trouble of updating 

the code of purchase 1 dot choose price to this dot choose price. 

Well, the advantage here is that rather than having to think about 

the name of the object whose shoes priced property I'm trying to access, 

I just used the alias of the current objects name, namely, this keyword. 

And now I can just copy the total price method from the purchase 1 object and 

reuse it in the purchase 2 object. 

So, using that this keyword allows me to not really care about the current 

objects name, which is an improvement to the previous code I had. 

However, programmers are always eager to avoid wasting resources when writing code. 

And coding a custom method on each of the objects I built is wasteful. 

The solution to this is to code my objects using some sort of a template. 

You will learn how to create this later in this lesson using something called 

a class. 

For now, let's explore object oriented programming principles with 

the example of calculating the total cost of buying a pair of shoes. 

Before starting, let's first quickly revisit another programming style. 

Functional programming, 

this should help you understand the differences between the two paradigms. 

I start with var shoes equals 100 and 

I also add var state tax equals 1.2. 

Next, I declare a function, 

which returns the value of the shoes multiplied by the value of the tax. 

This is written as function total price, with shoes and tax in parenthesis. 

Inside of curly braces, I add return shoes, asterix tax. 

Now, I'm declaring the variable to pay which invokes the total price function and 

passes the shoes variable value as well as the state tax variable value. 

Finally, I cancel log the to pay variable. 

When I run the code, the output is 120. 

So that's an example of the functional paradigm. 

But this time let's build something similar with the OOP paradigm. 

I go to a separate file where I declare the variable, purchase 1 and 

store an object literal inside of it with curly braces. 

I didn't add the property shoes and set it to 100, 

followed by state tax, which is set to 1.2. 

The last property is total price, 

which is set to a function to declare a calculation variable. 

This variable is equal to the purchase1 dot shoes property 

multiplied by the purchase 1 dot state tax property. 

The 2nd part of the function console logs the string total 

price along with the value of the calculation variable. 

Online 10, I call the function with purchase 1 dot total price parenthesis. 

Which I expect to return a value of 120. 

I run the code and that's indeed what I get. 

On another file, I'll build another OOP example, this one starts with 

the variable purchase 2, which has the same structure as purchase 1. 

However, that shoes value is changed to 50. 

In the total price function, the calculation variable is updated to 

access the shoes and state tax properties from purchase 2. 

When I invoked the total price method on the purchase 2 object and 

run the code, It returns a value of 60. 

Between these two OOP examples, you may have noticed that aside from 

accessing the shoes and state tax properties in different objects,. 

The two methods are completely the same. 

This means that I can improve my objects to make both methods identical while 

getting the same results. 

I can do this using the this keyword which essentially means this object. 

Let's move to another file, to examine how that works. 

In this file, I had the same purchase 1 and 

purchased 2 objects from before with all of the same values. 

in the total price function of purchase 1, 

I replaced the references to purchase 1 with the this keyword. 

I can then copy the total price method from purchase1 and 

paste it into the purchase 2 object, since they are now identical. 

I run this code and it gives me a total price of 120 for 

purchase 1 and 60 for purchase 2. 

This is an improvement, 

over my original code from the perspective of reducing waste. 

Instead of writing custom methods for every object, 

this approach allows for the reuse of existing code. 

However, although I'm reusing the existing code, 

I'm now repeating the same method on each new object that is built. 

That is wasteful and programs need to be efficient. 

This is where making templates for objects comes in. 

In JavaScript, one of the most elegant ways 

to efficiently build new objects is by using classes. 

Congratulations. 

In this video, you learned about object orientated programming and 

how it differs from functional programming. 

With the object orientated approach, 

you can code more efficiently by reusing existing code.