## 多行

```js
let multiLine = `
  Using ES6
  backticks
  multi-line
  strings are possible!
`
```

interpolate variable
```js
`Today is ${day}!`
```



In this video, I'll guide you through creating and using 

template literals in JavaScript ES6 

to understand their benefits. 

First, let's revisit strings in JavaScript ES5, 

which are built using single quotes or double quotes. 

I have an example in my code, 

I've declared a variable, 

no multi-line with the let keyword, 

which holds the string value, 

no multi-line strings in ES5. 

On the following line, 

I'm using the console.log method to 

output the string did you know, 

followed by the plus operator and 

then finally the no multi-line variable. 

Recall that you can use 

the plus operator for concatenation. 

When I run the code, I get 

the expected output of did you know, 

no multi-line strings in ES5. 

This time, let's change 

the value of the no multi-line variable. 

To do this, I place my cursor after the word no 

and press the Enter key to move 

part of the string to a second line. 

This now spans the string over multiple lines. 

If we were to run this code now, 

we would get the error. 

Also, notice that 

VS Code is trying to warn us about this error by 

highlighting the end of lines 3 and 4 with 

red text and displaying 

the message unterminated string literal. 

This is basically JavaScript 

telling us that our single line string is 

not coded correctly with 

the expected closing double quotation symbol. 

Using ES5 methods, 

you can only create strings using 

single or double quotations and using 

this method does not support 

the use of multi-line strings. 

Next, let me clear the output 

and switch tabs in my code. 

Here we have some syntax that may be unfamiliar to you. 

We have a variable multi-line 

declared with the let keyword and it contains a string. 

Like the previous example, 

this string is distributed across several lines. 

However, instead of quotes, 

it's encased within a pair of backticks. 

This turns it into an ES6 expression 

known as a template literal. 

The backtick symbol is usually located above 

the tab key to the left of the one key on your keyboard. 

Still, it's a good idea to check your devices 

documentation as you may be 

using a different keyboard layout. 

Using template literals, you can add 

as many lines as you want without causing errors. 

I can confirm this by running my code. 

Notice that the output is a multi-line string. 

But wait, it gets better. 

We can combine template literals with 

variable interpolation for even more flexibility. 

Once again, let me clear 

the output and continue to the next tab. 

Here, notice I have 

two variables called first and second, 

each containing a single line string 

encased in backticks. 

But there's a twist here. 

Each string also has 

a segment that sits inside of quotes. 

Wouldn't this cause conflict you might wonder? 

Fortunately, that's not the case. 

By using template literals, 

JavaScript does not consider quotes, 

a string delimiters, 

meaning they are just regular characters here. 

Now I can use template literals again to interpolate 

the variables first and second on a different line. 

Instead of using the plus operator for concatenation, 

I can simply enclose 

the full desired string within backticks. 

I can then place the variable name by enclosing it within 

a set of curly braces preceded by a dollar symbol. 

If I run this code, 

JavaScript combines everything and 

outputs the full string. 

With template literals you don't need to worry about 

the limitations of using single and double quotes. 

This can make for a much better coding experience 

as you just need to use 

backticks and variable interpolation. 

That's all for this video. 

Well done, you learned how to 

build then apply template literals to 

create multiline strings and 

interpolate variables in JavaScript.