You might already know, that a spread operator in JavaScript, 

is used to unpack a box, for example, to unpack an array. 

The rest operator, on the other hand, is used to build a smaller box, and 

pack items into it. 

In this video, you will explore what a rest operator is, and how to use it. 

To illustrate how a rest operator can be useful, consider a travel itinerary, 

I've realized, that there are many things I'd love to see, while in Rome, 

during my vacation. 

Unfortunately, I'm pressed for time, and 

there's no way to really enjoy all of the attractions, 

even if I rush to see them all, let's explore how to solve this itinerary issue. 

In this case I can create an array of seven places that I would like to visit, 

on my holiday to Rome. 

So I type const top7 to create the array, and 

I list the seven places I would like to go, within square brackets, 

with each item in double quotes, and separated by a comma. 

The Colosseum, the Roman Forum, the Vatican, Trevi Fountain, 

the Pantheon, Piazza Venezia, and the Palatine Hill. 

To solve the problem, I decided to organize my list in such a way, 

that I have my top three attractions, and prepare another list, for a second visit. 

To do this, I use the rest operator, and a technique known as de structuring, 

in this de structure in syntax, I simply specify, 

what I want to get out of the top seven array, in this case the first three items. 

So, I start by typing const, open and closed square bracket, equal sign, top7. 

Then, I create three variables first, second and third, 

plus another variable, to hold the rest of the list, named secondVisit. 

To do this, I type const first, second, third, and 

then three dots, and a new variable, secondVisit, 

within Square brackets, then equals top7, semi colon. 

With this syntax, I extracted the contents of the top7 array, 

into four variables, the variable first, with the value of the Colosseum. 

The variable second, with the value of the Roman Forum, the variable third, 

with the value of the Vatican. 

And then I include the variable secondVisit, that is a sub array, 

of the rest of the items, in the original top7 array. 

If I inspect secondVisit, an array of the four remaining attractions, 

Trevi Fountain, the Pantheon, Piazza Venezia, and the Palatine Hill, 

are all saved as string primitives. 

The rest operator, therefore, 

gives us what is left over of the source array, as a separate sub array. 

The rest operator is also useful in functions too, in fact, 

I can use a rest parameter, to quickly multiply values. 

I create a function, to add the tax rate to prices, I name it, 

addTaxToPrices, and give it two parameters, 

the tax rate and the rest operator, with the items bought. 

The function returns each item with the tax rate, in the addToTaxPrices, 

parameters, the rest parameter gives me an array, so 

I can use array methods, on items bought, using the map method. 

It's important to know, that the rest parameter, 

must be the last parameter in the function definition. 

This means, that adding any other parameter, to my addTaxToPrices function, 

after the rest operator, and the items bought would result in an error. 

In this video, you learned how to use the rest operator, 

which groups the remaining parameters in a list, within a standard JavaScript array, 

well done with completing this video, on the rest operator.