In this video will help you learn to convert a JSON string to a regular 

JavaScript object and vice versa. 

If you type a piece of JSON code into your browser's console, 

it should not produce any errors. 

For example, a JSON string with one property named greeting that contains 

the value of the string hello. 

If I run this code, I get back the same result. 

It's worth remembering that JSON is basically just an object represented in 

the form of a string. 

It has some specific formatting but it's a string nonetheless. 

So to work with JSON, it is common to convert it back to a JavaScript object to 

work with its properties and methods. 

To do this you need to use the global built in JSON object and 

its parse method, let me demonstrate this now. 

First I will sign the JSON string to a variable 

named JSONstr using the const keyword. 

Next I'll run the JSON parse method on this variable by typing 

JSON.parse and then JSONstr inside the parentheses. 

I press enter and notice that a regular JavaScript object is returned. 

I want to save this object as a variable. 

So I assigned the JSON parse method to a variable named aPlainObj 

using the const keyword. 

Okay, so now that my JSON string is stored in a regular JavaScript object. 

I can manipulate it just like any other JavaScript object. 

Let me demonstrate this now by reassigning the value of the greeting property, 

I type the object name followed by a dot and then the object property equals hi. 

Press enter and notice that the word hi is output. 

I can confirm this by inspecting the object and 

notice that its structure has been updated. 

Okay, that's how you convert a JSON string to a JavaScript object. 

You can also go the other way and convert a regular object to a JSON string. 

Using the string of my method of the JSON object. 

Let me demonstrate this now. 

For example, let's start by declaring an object named data and 

assign it some properties and values. 

To run the JSON string of my method on this object, 

I'll type JSON.stringfy and place the objects name inside the parentheses. 

The result is a JSON string. 

Notice that both the objects keys and 

its values are double quoted strings in the JSON syntax. 

It's important to remember that while plain JavaScript objects can hold 

functions, JSON strings cannot. 

Another limitation is that valid JSON doesn't allow the use of JavaScript 

comments. 

Also when you stringfy a JavaScript object containing a method, 

that method will be excluded from the stringfy operation. 

In this video you have learned how to convert a JSON string to a JavaScript 

object with the parse method. 

And how to convert a JavaScript object to a JSON string using the stringfy method. 

If you work with retrieving data from APIs converting the JSON strings to JavaScript 

objects will be a standard workflow. 

You can then easily access the objects properties programmatically this is 

a vital tool in your tool belt, and I encourage you to practice this.