You've reached the end of this module on 

programming paradigms. Great work. 

During this module, you explored the core features of 

functional programming and object-oriented programming. 

Let's review the module by 

summarizing the major items you encountered. 

The various styles of 

computer languages are known as programming paradigms. 

Having studied programming paradigms in this module, 

you should be able to describe 

functional programming and how it 

can be used to solve a problem by 

separating data from functions. 

Having explored functional programming, 

you moved on to another popular paradigm. 

Object-oriented programming, often referred to as OOP. 

You discovered how OOP 

differs from functional programming. 

You studied object-oriented programming principles. 

In programming, scope determines which parts of 

the code are accessible and which parts are inaccessible. 

You learned how the scope of variables changes when 

you use the keyword Var in ES5 JavaScript, 

and when you use the keywords, 

Let and Const in ES6 JavaScript. 

You should now be familiar with how 

the scope chain works in JavaScript. 

You should also now be able to 

identify how some of the different types of scope work, 

including global and local. 

Much of the development work in 

JavaScript involves building objects. 

Classes are essentially a blueprint that you 

can repeatedly use to build new objects. 

You can also pass parameters to 

the class methods and then use 

them the same as with regular functions. 

Constructors tell JavaScript how 

you want your objects to be built. 

You should now be able to utilize 

constructors on built-in JavaScript objects. 

You learned that inheritance exists in JavaScript, 

and the inheritance model revolves around the prototype. 

Additionally, you explored how 

JavaScript code uses modern features like spread, 

rest, template strings, and modules. 

You build code that manipulates 

the DOM and handles events. 

Finally, you used JSON in JavaScript. 

That was a lot to cover, 

but you should now be more familiar with 

programming paradigms in JavaScript. Great work.