One of the most powerful features of JavaScript is dom manipulation. 

For example, you can click on a button and change the color of some text or 

even display a pop up message. 

Essentially, you're dynamically updating the html content in real time. 

To do this, you must be able to locate the objects in your html document that you 

want to manipulate. 

In this video, I'll guide you through how to use selectors in 

JavaScript to quickly find specific objects in a document. 

JavaScript selectors work with the document object which you can access by 

typing the keyword document. 

This returns the webpage stored in the browser's memory known as 

the document object model or DOM. 

Alternatively, I can run a council log on the document keyword 

to get the same result. 

Let's start locating specific elements inside the document object using the query 

selector method. 

For example, I know this page contains two HTML paragraph elements, 

to access the first one I typed document.queryselector. 

Then in single quotes inside of the parentheses, I typed the letter P. 

When I press enter to run the command, it returns the first P element. 

I can then expand this to view the paragraph text contained within, 

this method can be used with other html elements, such as the anchor tag. 

If I run the same command with the letter A, 

I get back the first anchor element on the page. 

There is a very similarly named JavaScript selector that allows me to get all 

the matches from a web page. 

It's the query selector all method, 

to demonstrate this, I type document dot query selector all. 

Inside the parentheses, I passed the p letter as a string and 

indeed I get back a result that shows that there are two paragraph tags on this page. 

Another useful JavaScript selector is get element by ID which can find 

objects in the dawn that match a specified html ID attributes. 

For example, let's say we want to find something on this page with the idea of 

heading, I typed document.getelement by ID. 

And then the string heading in parentheses, I press enter and notice that 

an H1, element is returned assigned with the html ID attribute value of heading. 

Next, let's use a similar method that returns an element based on a specified 

class name rather than ID. 

We can do this by calling document.getElementsByClassName. 

I typed document.getElementsByClassName and then the string txt and parentheses. 

Again, I press enter and notice that two results are returned. 

The two paragraph tags containing the class name of txt.

Play video starting at :2:37 and follow transcript2:37

If you are a beginner on your journey with JavaScript, it is important to note 

that the word element is singular for ID and plural for class name. 

Additionally, suppose the element you're looking for 

cannot be found in that case you will be returned null for IDs. 

An empty collection represented by square brackets for class names. 

In this video you learned how to use JavaScript selectors to speed up 

the process of finding specific objects in a document.