Let's say you are using a webpage on 

your computer and you click a button, 

or you tap the like icon 

on a friend's picture on your phone. 

In JavaScript, the button click and 

the like icon tap are examples of user triggered events. 

Events are happening all the time. 

You can use JavaScript code to listen for these events. 

You can even choose the parts of 

the page on which you are listening for events. 

Let me describe an example. 

You might want to listen for 

a click event on an Add to Cart button. 

Once you capture such an event, 

you might want to run some JavaScript code. 

For example, I can add 

a circle with the number one on it next to 

the shopping cart icon to indicate 

that there is now one item in the shopping cart. 

If the same event gets triggered or fired again, 

our event handling code then handles the event by 

updating the count in 

the circle next to the shopping cart icon. 

The circle then displays the number two to 

indicate that there are two items in the cart. 

In JavaScript, the function that handles 

captured events is known as the event handler. 

Let me demonstrate how to listen 

foreign event by using the add event listener method. 

Okay, so I'm back in 

the console here and let me demonstrate 

two ways to set up an event listener 

for HTML elements on a webpage. 

One of the easiest ways to listen for 

an event is to use the add event listener method. 

You can do that on a given HTML element. 

For example, suppose I want to listen to 

the click event on the body of this example website. 

First, I need to get a reference to 

the body element where we want to listen to this event. 

In the console of the browser developer tools, 

I type document.queryselector, 

and then the name of the element 

inside of the parenthesis. 

For this example, 

its body, and I enclose it with single quotes. 

Next, I want to assign the body object to a variable. 

I type const target 

equals to assign the body object to the target variable. 

I've named this variable target 

because it's the target of our click event. 

Now I can create a function that 

would be run when this target is clicked. 

I type function handle click, 

and then in the function body, 

I console log the string, clicked the body. 

The next step is to run 

the addEventListener method on the target element. 

I type target.add EventListener. 

Then inside the parenthesis, 

I pass it two arguments. 

The first is the event type click as a string value, 

and the second is my handle click function. 

Okay, so my code is now ready. 

Let me test it by clicking the webpage. 

Success. Notice that the text is output to the console. 

In addition to the addEventListener method, 

an alternative way to listen for events is 

by using HTML event attributes. 

Before doing that, let me first write 

a second click handler function named handleClick2. 

Once again, I console log 

a string inside the function body. 

This time it will output the phrase clicked the heading. 

Next, I need to open the elements panel of 

the developer tools and expand 

the view for the div element, 

then the heading element should be visible. 

I right-click the H1 element and click edit as HTML. 

Then after the H1, 

I create the attribute by typing 

onclick equals followed by 

my function name handleClick2 

with a pair of parenthesis at the end. 

Finally, I click outside the element to 

save the change and return to the Console tab. 

Notice that when I now 

click on the heading in the webpage, 

the phrase clicked the heading and 

clicked the body is output to the console. 

Basically, this single click has 

triggered two different event listeners. 

But notice that if I click outside of the heading, 

it only triggers the event listener that 

listens for clicks on the entire body element. 

In this video, you learned 

how to write an event listener using 

the addEventListener method as well as by writing 

a function directly as 

a HTML event attribute. Great work.