The Boolean data type is used to 

check if a statement is true or false, 

which makes it a foundational part 

of knowing how to use JavaScript. 

It has many uses, but in this video, 

I will focus on how to get the result of 

a comparison to determine 

if two values are the same or not. 

What does a Boolean datatype? 

To understand the answer to this question, 

let's think about a real life scenario 

of comparing numbers, 

such as, for example, 

checking if number 1 is smaller than number 2. 

In JavaScript, I do it like this, 

1 less than sign 2. 

When I press the Enter key, 

JavaScript says that this is a true claim. 

Let's do some other comparisons. 

Let's check if one is greater than two, 

1 greater than sign 2. 

This code returns a value of 

false of the Boolean data type. 

No matter how I compare numbers, 

the result of the comparison will 

always be either true or false. 

There are no maybe's here. 

That's why the Boolean data type has 

only two possible values, true and false. 

Besides the less than and the greater than operator, 

I can also use some other operators to compare numbers. 

It might help to think of 

these various comparison operators, those tests. 

Let's say I wanted to test if the comparison of 

two numbers is correct or incorrect. 

Now I will run a few tests 

with some additional operators, 

starting with checking for equality, 

1 equals equals 2. 

I'm claiming that 1 is equal to 

2 and JavaScript returns false. 

No, 1 is not equal to 2. 

My claim is false. 

When first introduced to 

the syntax with two consecutive equal signs, 

it is not uncommon for people to be slightly confused. 

Why the double equals sign? 

After all, you know that in mathematics you 

only need a single equal sign to signal equality. 

But in JavaScript, I use 

a single equal sign as the assignment operator to assign 

a value from the right side of the assignment operator 

to the variable on 

the left side of the assignment operator. 

For example, I can type var score equals 100 to 

declare a variable called score and 

assign it to the value 100. 

In other words, I can now confirm that the value of 

score is 100 by typing out score in the console. 

Indeed 100 it is. 

In contrast, in JavaScript the equality operator 

has to equal signs and it checks only for value. 

Additionally, there's also 

the strict equality operator that has 

three equal signs and it checks for 

both the value and type. 

For example, if I use the equality operator, 

let me type 100 double equal sign, 

double quotation, number 100, 

and close double quotation, 

the console will return the Boolean value of true. 

By using the double equals sign, 

I compare only this value and not the type. 

JavaScript checks only if 100 is equal 

to 100 regardless of the datatype. 

It ignores the fact that the 100 on the left of 

the equality operator without 

the double-quotes is a number, 

and that the 100 on the right of 

the equality operator with the double quotes is a string. 

The strict equality operator is more unforgiving. 

It checks for both the quality of 

value and the quality of type. 

Therefore, comparing the number of 

100 without quotes with a string 

100 with double-quotes will return 

a Boolean value of false. 

Why is this false? 

It is false because although 

the value is the same, the type is not. 

The number 100 does not have 

the same type as the string 100. 

There's also an operator that's the opposite of 

the equality operator, the inequality operator. 

It's a combination of an exclamation mark 

and an equal sign. Let's test it. 

I take number 1, 

exclamation mark the equals sign and number 1 again. 

It returns a Boolean value of false because 

it is false to say that one is not equal to one. 

Additionally, just like there's 

the strict equality operator, 

there's also its opposite in 

the form of the strict inequality operator. 

This operator is an exclamation mark 

with two equal signs. 

Let's type number 1 as a number, 

exclamation mark the equals sign twice, 

and then number 1 inside 

double quotes that is as a string. 

This returns a Boolean value of 

true because the number one is not 

the same as a string 1 by both the value and the type. 

It's true that these two values are not the same. 

There are other operators in JavaScript, 

and there are some additional concepts like 

operator precedence and operator associativity, 

but we'll skip this for now. 

With the examples covered in this video, 

you should have a basic grasp of how 

the Boolean data type works and what it's useful for. 

You will encounter Boolean values 

again because there are other important ways 

in which you can use them in 

your code besides comparing numbers and strings.