Javascript is used in many scenarios, for example, 

in the browser to help add 

various behaviors and interactivity, 

like adding an item to 

a shopping cart when you click a button. 

On the server, it can be used to power up websites, 

communicate with databases, and 

provide a native fields to web apps. 

It's used to build mobile apps using technologies like 

React Native and it's used to 

program devices known as the Internet of Things. 

In a nutshell, JavaScript is everywhere. 

This means that there are many different use cases 

for JavaScript and with these different use cases, 

come different implementations, 

each geared towards solving a particular problem. 

For example, in the early 2000s, 

different companies built Internet browsers 

and were referred to as browser vendors. 

However, with different browsers came 

different behaviors with 

various discrepancies between other browsers. 

This resulted in developers sometimes having to write 

separate JavaScript code for different browsers. 

This wasn't the best use of developer time and 

could lead to a frustrating experience for end-users. 

Out of this frustration, 

several projects appeared trying 

to solve this compatibility problem. 

One such project managed to solve 

these issues and it was a library named jQuery. 

Using this library, all a developer needed was to 

import jQuery and write code using its features. 

This code would then work across all browsers. 

At the time, it was like magic, 

as it was such a great solution to 

the problem of incompatibility and 

jQuery became the most popular JavaScript library 

for well over a decade. 

However, as the web and the way we code kept evolving, 

new problems appeared, and soon enough, 

new solutions to those problems needed to be built. 

Once such solution was React, 

which came out in 2011 and it had 

a considerable effect on the way we 

think about websites and how we build them. 

React, solved many of 

the issues associated with creating, 

updating and maintaining complex websites. 

Soon, many other technologies 

appeared attempting to do the same. 

These include Knockout, Backbone, 

Angular, Ember, Vue, 

Alpine, and others. 

With millions of websites containing 

JavaScript code from different versions and libraries, 

there is a lot of old code. 

This is known as a legacy code. 

While you probably won't use 

jQuery to build a modern website today, 

you might still come across it in 

a project that is still actively running. 

But don't worry, sometimes 

beginners think they have to learn or 

even master all the different technologies 

associated with JavaScript. 

However, that's not really necessary. 

To be a well-rounded developer, 

you need to learn and master the basics of 

plain JavaScript without the frameworks. 

Once you have this foundation, 

the pathway will become 

easier for you to learn a framework 

built on top of JavaScript, such as React.