In JavaScript, like in other programming languages, 

there are different data types. 

The number of data type is 

a foundational part of JavaScript as 

a programming language because it represents 

both integer and decimal point numbers. 

Without it, you wouldn't be able to code and with 

such a crucial data type 

we better get started right away. 

Let me demonstrate the number data type. 

I type the value 123 

into the console and press ''Enter.'' 

Notice that the output is 123. 

Next, on a new line, 

I type a decimal value, 

123.456 which is also a number data type. 

I press the Enter key again and get 

the decimal value 123.456. 

In JavaScript, we can use 

numbers to perform math operations. 

For example, I can code 2 plus 

2 and get the value of 4 returned. 

Just like in regular mathematics, 

we use the plus symbol for addition. 

Similarly, use the minus symbol to perform subtraction. 

For example, 4 minus 2 returns the value of 2. 

For multiplication use the asterisk or star 

key so 4 times 4, will return 16. 

For division use the forward-slash key 

16 divided by 4 returns the value of 4. 

You can use a double star sign to perform 

exponential calculations for 

slightly more complex arithmetic. 

For example, 10 to the power of 2, 

10 times 10 will return 100. 

A final example is the remainder or the modulus operator. 

This checks how many times you can fit one number 

into the other and then return the remainder. 

If I type 9 modulus 8, 

the value of one is returned, 

or 16 modulus 8 returns a zero. 

This is because the number eight 

divides into the number 16 evenly. 

There is no remainder as represented here by the zero. 

Besides basic mathematical operations, 

you can also use parentheses to 

group more complex calculations. 

For example, 2 times 4 plus 8 can 

return a different answer depending 

on the order used for calculation. 

For example, multiplying 2 

times 4 and then adding the value of 8 returns 

16 but 2 times the value of 4 plus 8 returns 24. 

By using parentheses, I can 

control the order of calculations. 

Without parentheses, JavaScript will follow 

the standard mathematical sequence of calculation. 

In this case, the multiplication 

would take precedence and be done first 

so the 2 times 4 happens first and then 

the 8 is added returning a value of 16. 

Remember I can override that using 

parentheses and get a different result. 

That's an example of using parentheses and 

JavaScript with numbers and mathematical operators. 

Some of the most common JavaScript 

mathematical operators are plus, 

minus, times, division, and modulus. 

If you'd like to learn more about mathematical operators, 

there's an additional reading at the end of this lesson.