What if you need your code to perform 

more than one task at the same time? 

Maybe you need to process data set A, 

but at the same time also process data set B. 

In cases like this, 

you can use nested loops. 

You might already be familiar with the for loop, 

which is used for instructing your code to 

perform the same task over and over again. 

But with JavaScript, it's possible to nest loops within 

other loops so that 

multiple tasks can be performed at once. 

There can be multiple levels of nesting too. 

Let's now examine a practical example 

where you might use a nested loop. 

Suppose you are creating 

a two-week plan for the days Monday to Friday, 

you need to output 

each day number and the week it's associated to. 

You have five days for week 1 and five days for week 2. 

Using a nested loop is 

the perfect way to achieve this output. 

Let me break it down for you now 

using an example with for loops. 

If we recall our example, 

we have two categories; weeks and days. 

The first loop, also known as the outer loop, 

will loop over the weeks. 

An increment counter of 2 is required, 

and this is created with a variable named i. 

Then the nested loop will loop over the days. 

To do this, another increment counter is required, 

and this is created with a variable named j. 

Finally, the console log method is required to output 

the text with the values of i and j to the console. 

This code outputs 10 lines, week 1, 

and each day from 1-5, 

and then the same for week 2. 

However, you need to take care not to overdo it 

as multiple levels of 

nested loops are not very performant. 

In other words, the more nested loops there are, 

the slower your code will run. 

Let's now explore an example where you will output code 

using nested loops to 

display the summer months over two years. 

I'm back in my browser's console and I 

start by pasting in a for loop declaration. 

Notice this specifies the year variable as 2023 and 

the exit condition when the comparison of 

year is less than 2025 returns false. 

I've also set the year's value 

to increase by one on each loop. 

Essentially, I've coded this loop twice. 

Next, I type console.log in 

the loop body and place 

the variable year inside the parenthesis. 

I expect the output to display 2023 and 2024. 

I run the for loop to confirm 

that this is the case, and indeed, 

the values 2023 and 2024 are logged to the console. 

This is a process that you are already familiar with. 

Now I want to demonstrate a nested loop, 

and to do that, 

I need to add another loop inside 

the body of the first for loop. 

This will also be a for loop. 

This time I type for (var month equal 6, 

month less than 9, 

and month plus, plus). 

What I'm doing here is counting only the summer months. 

The summer months are usually June, 

July, and August in the Northern Hemisphere. 

That's months 6, 

7, and 8. 

Notice that the counter will start at month 6 and it will 

keep checking if the numbers stored 

in the month variable are less than 9. 

On each subsequent loop, 

the value stored in 

the multi-variable will increase by 1. 

Effectively, it's going to go through months 6, 

7, and 8. 

After it runs these three loops, 

it's going to stop. 

Now I type console.log in the body of the inner loop. 

To make sure that I showed that this is nested, 

I'm going to add several dash characters 

and then the month variable. 

Now, when I run this code, 

the outer loop will run for the first time 

and it will set the value of the year variable to 2023. 

Then console log that number, 

and then go into the code of the inner loop and run it. 

Once inside the code of the inner loop, 

I can expect the code to run three 

times and output dashes 6, 

dashes 7, and dashes 8. 

The inner loop will then exit, 

and the code will move back to 

the outer loop to begin the next loop cycle. 

When this starts, the value of the year variable 

has been increased by one to 2024. 

This still satisfies the condition 

of year is less than 2025. 

The code logs the year and proceeds to the inner loop. 

JavaScript will go into the inner 

for loop again and rerun it. 

Once again, it will output 6, 

7, and 8 again. 

This code will continue this sequence display in 

the year 2024 and the final three months of summer. 

Let me run the code now. 

Success. The code produced my predicted output. 

Before I end this video, 

let me demonstrate how to simplify the for loop. 

Instead of using these long variable names, 

I can just use i instead of the year, 

and I can use j instead of the month. 

This makes the code easier to read. 

It might seem harder to understand because I'm using 

i and j instead of more descriptive names. 

But these variable names are standard practice in 

the development community and are 

considered a best practice to use. 

You have now learned about 

nested loops and the reason to use them. 

It's important to remember that while 

nested loops are an option for developers, 

they can be resource-intensive. 

Nested loops can be used in 

instances where you need automated repetition of code, 

for example, sorting numbers from highest to lowest. 

A good developer writes code 

efficiently to maximize resources, 

and you are on your way to becoming one of them.