In previous videos, you have learned about 

data structures like lists, stacks, and queues. 

Another data structure you have 

not yet learned about is trees. 

What exactly is a tree in the data structure context? 

Trees are a powerful data structure that gives you 

great flexibility in adding and searching values. 

The inherent structure of the tree can allow you 

to understand a lot about 

the relations between the data stored, 

which can save a lot of time and code 

when extracting information from the data. 

In this video, you will explore 

the general structure and 

inherent features that trees provide. 

You will also learn about 

some of the different types of trees 

and the advantages of using a tree data structure. 

Let's get started. 

A tree is a very complex data structure 

that resembles a tree in design. 

It consists of nodes that are linked with one another. 

A node can be a parent or child node. 

A parent node may have a connected set of children nodes. 

Nodes with no children are referred to as leaf nodes. 

As with a tree, 

nodes can branch off in different directions, 

allowing for powerful search and storage features. 

Generally, we can look at a tree 

as a graph-like structure that has 

nodes that contain data and 

edges that model how each node relates to one another. 

When discussing trees, it is 

important to know some of the terminologies. 

The top-level node is referred to as the root. 

Each subsequent node down that is connected to 

this node is referred to as a child node. 

Nodes that have the same parent are referred to as 

siblings and are considered to be on the same level. 

One might picture a chapter of a book where 

the subsections correlate to connected nodes. 

The theme of these nodes will 

be of a very similar nature. 

Other branches would be other chapters that still 

fall under the general theme but on different topics. 

A path refers to a series of connected nodes. 

You might assume a connection between 

two nodes by determining the shortest path. 

This is to say the quickest way that you 

can move from one node to another. 

Intuitively, nodes with 

shorter paths will have more in common. 

The depth of a node refers to how many edges there are 

from the parent to the root or the longest path. 

The height of the tree 

refers to the number of edges between 

the topmost node to 

the deepest node within the structure. 

Finally, the size of a tree 

refers to the total number of nodes within the tree. 

There are many variants and implementations of trees, 

such as binary trees, 

B trees, and B-plus trees. 

There are also Quad trees and AVL trees to name a few. 

While all of them will contain 

the general theme outlined, 

their use and implementation differ 

slightly depending on the type of tree being applied. 

There are many advantages to storing 

your data in a tree-like structure. 

The connections between the nodes indicate 

a relationship that is inherent in your data. 

They can store information in hierarchical fashion, 

where the topmost content is stored in the upper nodes, 

and more in-depth information can be 

retrieved by traversing a given branch to a tree. 

They are also very efficient for inserting and deleting 

data due to the flexible way 

in which they're implemented. 

The non-linear nature of a tree 

means that there are many ways of traversing the data. 

In binary trees, this feature 

can be very useful when storing data. 

A left node has a lesser value, 

while the right node indicates 

that there is a greater value. 

Let's demonstrate that with some data values. 

The first data contains the value of 23, 

then a four is added. 

Because it is less than 23, 

it goes to the left. 

Following is a one, 

also less than 23, 

but also less than 4. 

That also goes to the left. 

The next number to follow is 30. 

Because it is now larger than 23, 

it goes to the right. 

A 24 is added, 

and because it is less than the 30, 

it goes to the left. 

But the 56 that was 

added goes to the right of the 30 again. 

One can traverse a tree in 

depth-first or breadth-first method. 

A depth-first method involves visiting 

every node from top to bottom sequentially. 

A breadth-first method involves searching 

each node on the same level 

before ascending to the next level, 

and repeating until the root node has been reached. 

More benefits of trees are that they can be 

used to model file systems on your laptop, 

class hierarchies like those found in Java, 

or modeling hierarchies in organizations. 

In this video, you explored 

the general structure and 

inherent features that trees provide. 

You also learned about some of 

the different types of trees and 

the advantages of implementing a tree data structure.