When considering a given problem in computer science, it is always important to consider what executions might be required to solve your problem.

Through this reflection, choose an appropriate data structure to hold your data.

Consider that you might work for a large Internet company, that wants to store a directory of locations and their connectedness to one another.

In this illustration, are cities plotted in relation to one another.

Notice how every possible detail need not be recorded.

Say for instance, you want to know how far Chicago is from Boston.

You can easily deduce this from the way in which the data is organized.

The same approach can be used to model the Internet destinations, relationships between words or people on a social network.

This approach to saving information is a graph-based approach.

In the coming video, some terminology and advantages to this approach will be outlined.

This structure illustration is a graph that is made up of nodes to denote destinations and edges that show how each node relates to another.

The presence of values between the nodes means that this is a weighted graph.

There are no arrows present, which means that this is an undirected graph.

In contrast to a directed graph, and an undirected graph has no order of precedence.

One way to think about directed and undirected graphs is like two-way and one-way streets.

Sometimes it helps when ordering data to highlight some progression.

When in other instances, the edges are there just to show association.

A part then is a sequence of two or more nodes that connected by an edge.

Connection in a directed graph is considered weakly connected, if the edge is only one way.

However, if there are two connections going either way between two nodes, then it is said to be strongly connected.

At this point, you may be considering that a graph resembles a tree.

In some ways, you can say a tree is a simple graph.

Notably, a tree has a starting point and models a hierarchy with parents and children.

A graph is a far more complex structure that has no beginning or end.

Two nodes bordering one another are called neighbors, and nodes that are connected through a neighbor are said to be adjacent.

Graphs, like trees can be traversed breadth first and depth first.

Recall a breadth first search involves visiting every node on the same level, then going lower and a depth first search involves drilling into the end of every branch before moving on to the next one.

A breadth first approach involves choosing a given starting location and iterating over all the neighboring nodes.

Each neighbor will have a connection of connected nodes which can be added to another data structure already mentioned.

The queue, in this way, you can systematically visit every node.

To achieve a depth first search, you can employ a stack.

We call a stack processes elements differently than a queue.

While the queue prioritizes first-in, first-out, a stack focuses on last-in, last-out.

So by placing all of the neighbor nodes systematically on a stack, you would ensure a depth first traversal.

Graphs are a much studied data structure and are the basis of many algorithms that have been developed to establish importance between nodes.

Regardless of the element stored in the node, one notable one is shortest path.

What is the quickest way to get from node A to node E? The edge weights will inform as to the cost of choosing each path.

This approach is used when routing Internet packages on the Internet, or when calculating a journey on Google Maps.

Another common graph-based challenge is a traveling salesman.

A salesman has a select few nodes to visit.

What is the best route to plot, that hits all the nodes in the shortest time.

This would be used in packet routing given x destinations and y vehicles plot out the most efficient route so that all packages get delivered with the least spending of resources.

In this video, you learned how graphs give you the opportunity to model data in a flexible way that facilitates inferring information on the data by how it is stored.

This versatile approach only retains the minimum of information.

The distance from Chicago to Boston is not stored anywhere, but can be deduced.

It's easy to query different questions without changing the makeup of the data.

Calculating the best time when walking can easily be substituted in place of driving with minimal fuss.

There has been a whole field of statistics devoted to inferring information from node placements, which can be leveraged to make inference on any data stored there.