# 1.1_Video_Working with React hooks
Meta lite studios for productions and virtual reality in New York City and take action.
Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28
My name is Murtadha.

I'm a software engineer at Meta based on the Seattle office.

React hooks were first introduced at a React conference and it was shared with the community and the community of React enthusiast who are excited about the new things and they're the people that we trust to give us the feedback and test out the things that we're thinking about.

I had gone on vacation and came back and my co-worker had been saying, there's this new exciting thing, let's start using it, and I looked at it and I thought, this is so silly.

Why do we need this thing and he's like, no trust me, this is going to be great, so I was like, okay fine.

I started learning them and start using them.

Now I can't imagine writing code without hooks.

At first, it sometimes feels a little unintuitive or there's a lot of magic going on that doesn't make sense right away.

But once you get the hang of it and you start using it and understanding it actually really makes life easier to use.

Hooks can actually simplify your applications greatly and introduce performance gains that can make your code more readable and easier to manage, as well as your code more shareable and reusable.

Before the introduction of hooks, we were using class components, and they seemed like they were doing their job.

But with time, this class components were becoming bigger.

They were becoming quite complex.

We couldn't really break certain components down into more modular components or pieces.

We wanted to make code more usable.

We wanted to make it simpler and remove this need for having these huge bloated components that we're not able to be broken into smaller pieces.

When we develop new technologies at Meta, we tried to be the first users of those things to make sure they actually work and we get to be watching the feedback as it comes directly from our engineers, so the same thing with hooks.

We started actually using them internally a lot.

We saw that internal teams are also starting to really appreciate the improvements that hook introduced and so that really justified that hooks are making a big difference in the process of developing React applications and it gave rise to rolling it out more widely.

When hooks were introduced, they were actually introduced in a non-breaking wave which meant that you don't have to use them.

You could continue to use the old style of writing React components and they didn't break anything that was previously written.

This is one of the approaches that we use when we roll out new things that we want to make sure this new thing doesn't break any of the old things that people are doing..

My advice for you as you're learning hooks and working with them for the first time is to stick it out.

They may seem hard and confusing at first, but they actually will improve your code with time and it may be tempting to use the old way of writing React code but actually with hooks, you will find that once you learn them, code will make more sense with hooks.

Even if at first seemed a little confusing and intuitive.

Take the time to learn them, make that investment upfront and you'll find that it's worth it in the long run.