# 1.3_Video_What are side effects?

Before moving on to using another hook.
Known as the `useEffect` hook, let's take some time to consider its name.

The name of the `useEffect` hook is closely related to the concept of an effect or more precisely a side effect.

In this video you will learn 
- what side effects within a react component are
- including what pure and impure functions are.
- And their relation to side effects as well as how `useEffect` is used to perform side effects within functional components.

## So what is a side effect? 

A side effect is something that makes a function in pure.

Did you know that functions can be classified as pure and impure simply put pure functions don't have side effects.

And impure functions do let's unpack the concept of pure and impure functions in relation to side effects and more.

A pure function should receive specific input.
That is a specific parameter will always return the exact same output.

No matter how many times it gets invoked.
To illustrate let's explore a function that uses the year little lemon was established.

In this example the established year component accepts a props object that is a props parameter.
It also returns a value that is a heading that outputs the words established year followed by a colon space.

And the value of the year prop as long as the value of the year prop is 2003.
Regardless of how many times the established year function is invoked or it is rendered from the app component, the output will remain unchanged.
This is an example of a pure function.

The established year function has no side effects.

By contrast and impure function will perform a side effect.
That means it will do things such as invoke console log, invoke, fetch or invoke browsers geolocation functionality. 
In this context, a side effect can be thought of as something external to or outside of a function.
在这种情况下，副作用可以被认为是函数外部的东西。

Consider the example of a ShoppingCart function built for the little lemon app.
It is an impure function because of the line that reads console log total.
The console log call makes the function impure as it's a call to a browser, application programming interface or API.

The ShoppingCart function now depends on something outside of itself and even outside of the react app to work properly.

So how should you deal with the issue of impure functions in react.

Well, it's all about containing the impure actions inside their own special areas.

To do this and react you need to use the `useEffect` hook, let's update the ShoppingCart component with the `useEffect` hook to properly deal with the side effect caused by the console log.

First, you need to import the `useEffect` hook from react the `useEffect` hook works by accepting two parameters.

The first is a callback function.

The second parameter is an array.

This array can be kept empty which is perfectly valid while the syntax is valid.

It's common to use an arrow function as the first argument of the invocation of the `useEffect` hook.

Note that the `useEffect` has been simplified to a single line of code.

It usually spends several lines of code that's because it typically needs to do something more meaningful than just console logging the value of the components variable.

In this video, you learned about pure and impure functions and their relation to side effects.

Exploring with side effects within a react component are, and briefly how `useEffect` is used to perform them.
You can look forward to applying this knowledge by using the `useEffect` hook introduced in this video to perform side effects.

