At this stage, you should be familiar with different layouts and grid structures, and you should be ready to start using flexbox. 
在此阶段，您应该熟悉不同的布局和网格结构，并且应该准备好开始使用 Flexbox。

Let's explore a few ==practical== examples of how you can use it. In the next few minutes, you will explore what the three most common uses of flexbox are. 
让我们探讨一些如何使用它的实际示例。 在接下来的几分钟内，您将探索 Flexbox 的三种最常见用途。

As mentioned earlier, flexboxes are more suitable to use for simple layout or designing simple elements in a page. 
如前所述，Flexbox 更适合用于简单布局或在页面中设计简单元素。

==In line with that idea==, let's explore a few commonly used design elements that you see on a page. You will discover simple ways in which you can utilize flexboxes for binding elements together or creating an easy layout. 
根据这个想法，让我们探讨一下您在页面上看到的一些常用设计元素。 您将发现使用弹性盒将元素绑定在一起或创建简单布局的简单方法。

Let's explore the three most common uses of flexbox is in CSS. 
让我们探讨一下 Flexbox 在 CSS 中最常见的三种用途。

## three most common uses of flexbox
The first application of flexbox that you will cover that is commonly used is a search bar. 
您将介绍的第一个 Flexbox 常用应用是搜索栏。

You can use flex in search bars because it ==ties up== all the elements, such as the small Search icon, the search input area, and the Submit button. 
您可以在搜索栏中使用 Flex，因为它绑定了所有元素，例如小搜索图标、搜索输入区域和提交按钮

Next, you can create the navigation bar using flex, which consists of several different layouts, and it makes your navigation bar highly responsive on different devices. 
接下来，您可以使用 Flex 创建导航栏，它由几种不同的布局组成，它使您的导航栏在不同设备上具有高度响应能力。

Finally, another type of flexbox that is commonly used is an image gallery. Flexes helpful here is it can realign itself as you change the size of the window. 
最后，另一种常用的弹性盒类型是图像库。 Flexes 在这里很有用，因为它可以在您更改窗口大小时重新调整自身。

In the next few minutes, you will discover how to create these flexboxes to ensure a simple layout.
## search bar
In the first example of a flexbox file, I will create a search bar, I add a reference to the CSS file in the head section of the HTML page. 

After that, I add content inside the body section of our HTML code. 

I first create a container class with a div tag. 
Inside this container, I have three different elements, which are the search icon, the search box where I typed my search, and finally the Submit button. 

In the CSS code, I first write rules for the container, then for the search icon, the search box, and finally for the button. 
在接下来的几分钟内，您将了解如何创建这些弹性盒以确保简单的布局。 在 Flexbox 文件的第一个示例中，我将创建一个搜索栏，并在 HTML 页面的 head 部分添加对 CSS 文件的引用。 之后，我在 HTML 代码的正文部分中添加内容。 我首先创建一个带有 div 标签的容器类。 在这个容器中，我有三个不同的元素，它们是搜索图标、我在其中输入搜索的搜索框，最后是提交按钮。 在 CSS 代码中，我首先为容器编写规则，然后为搜索图标、搜索框，最后为按钮编写规则。

Most of the properties defined here are settings for the alignment of the selectors. There are just a few important things to take note of. The display property I use is inline flex instead of flex, which makes the flex container behave like an inline element. Another property to take note of is the overflow. 

The overflow property clips the overflowing content, which in this case will be the text I enter in the search query. Then I add the properties for the icon and the search box. Finally, I add the properties for the Search button. Let's remove this CSS code momentarily to check how the output displays with aided. 

Although all the elements are there the page is standard and playing, I add the code back to the CSS file and check the output one more time. Now the search box displays the properties that I defined in my CSS file. Notice that when I change the size of the page, the search area doesn't change. 

Another place where flexbox is used quite frequently is in navigation menus. In this case, I created an unordered list that consists of four items. Notice that in my CSS code I use something called a star or universal selector. The universal selector applies the rules to every element in my CSS code. 

I use this to declare any formatting that is browser specific. Now I define the rules for the container. It's important to notice that I use the flex-flow, which is a shorthand property specifying the direction of the flex container and its behavior for wrapping. Another important property is justify content, which aligns the flexible containers items along the main axis. In this case, I have set it to stretch. Since the individual elements are part of the container, I applied the rules both to the container, onto the elements which are the list items, anchor, tag, and so on. It's also important to notice that the page is responsive. 

As the size of the browser window gets smaller, the items stacked on top of each other, and if I expand the window, it changes to a standard horizontal navigation menu. One final flexbox example that I will demonstrate is a responsive image gallery. All the elements for the gallery is in the body of the HTML file. There is a div element with a class container that consists of six images that are saved inside the project folder. Now, let's open the CSS file. 

First, I remove all browser-specific settings that may be there by using the star selector just like I did earlier. I set the value of both the margin and the padding to zero. I then reset the basic alignment options for the images by setting the border to zero. Next, let's focus on the container. First, I set the value of display to flex, then I add the flex-wrap property which determines whether the flex items should be forced in one line or should wrap over multiple lines. 

Next, I justify the content property, which aligns the flexible container items on the horizontal main axis, I set it to space dash between. Finally, I add some padding. Let's inspect the output. The output window is narrow at the moment, so the six images are stacked on top of each other. But when I expand the window, they spread out. One can notice the effect better in a browser, so I copy the link and paste it into my browser. 

When I change the size of the browser window, it is clear that the alignment of these images is responsive. These are just some of the ways in which you use flexboxes to provide responsiveness to websites and bind different elements together on web pages. 

You should now be more familiar with some simple ways in which you can use flexboxes to bind elements together to create an easy responsive layout on your webpage. Good job.