In this video, you will learn about how differently 

commonly used grid layouts are 

created and where you can use them. 

Let's start by examining 

the grid layout named the pancake stack. 

I've opened extra.HTML in Visual Studio Code. 

Now I can start adding the different elements. 

First is the restaurant's name, 

little lemon, which I put into the header.

Play video starting at ::24 and follow transcript0:24

In the main element, I type menu and for the footer, 

I type About Us.

Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34

After saving, next, 

I will open up extra.CSS. 

First of all, write the rules for the body, 

followed by the header name and then the footer. 

First for the body, 

I need to use the display property to code the grid. 

I define as high as 150 VH. 

One VH is equal to 1 percent of the viewport height. 

Now, I add the grid template rows 

property that will track 

the sizing functions for the grid rows. 

I set it to one FR or one fraction for the main section.

Play video starting at :1:7 and follow transcript1:07

Now, I define the rules for the header. 

I start by setting the background color

Play video starting at :1:18 and follow transcript1:18

and follow that up with text alignment, 

which is centered and 2EM padding. 

2EM is a relative height which is 

twice the size of the current font height. 

Let's examine the output.

Play video starting at :1:40 and follow transcript1:40

It looks good. I'm going to do the 

same for the main and the footer elements.

Play video starting at :2:15 and follow transcript2:15

I've changed the colors, but everything else is the same.

Play video starting at :2:23 and follow transcript2:23

Let's examine the output again.

Play video starting at :2:31 and follow transcript2:31

It looks exactly like I was expecting. 

The header main and footer are 

all formatted in different colors. 

If I modify the size of the page, 

the layout changes accordingly.

Play video starting at :2:46 and follow transcript2:46

Next, let's examine the 12th section 

or 12 column grid system layout, 

also called a twelve span grid. 

This type of grid, conceptually to divide 

the page into 12 columns of equal size. 

One can add different elements to the grid by determining 

their starting point and 

the number of columns each element spans. 

Don't worry, this will all become a lot 

clearer when I go through the following example. 

I'm opening gridtwelve.html in Visual Studio code. 

First, I create a container with class parent 

and inside it I'll add six items that I call segments. 

I had a class name for each of the div tags matching 

the span or width I'm going 

to give each of these segments, 

these widths are randomly assigned.

Play video starting at :4:17 and follow transcript4:17

Now, I'm going to save and open up my gridtwelve.css file. 

I'm going to add CSS selectors for each class. 

I will first add CSS properties for the parent class, 

and then for the individual segments are defined. 

For the parent class, I write 

display grid and then add 

the grid template columns property, 

which I'm going to repeat 12 

times with one fraction each.

Play video starting at :4:50 and follow transcript4:50

Next, I define the properties of the segment. 

Again, I display grid 

following up with centering the items at the text.

Play video starting at :5:6 and follow transcript5:06

I set the grid template rows property. 

I want the segments to be a little wider, 

so I'll set it to 100 pixels.

Play video starting at :5:17 and follow transcript5:17

Let's examine the output.

Play video starting at :5:27 and follow transcript5:27

It's not much for now, but let's continue.

Play video starting at :5:34 and follow transcript5:34

Now, let's set the properties 

for the different segments. 

The first one spends 12 columns, 

I start by adding a light green background.

Play video starting at :5:47 and follow transcript5:47

The next part is important. 

This is where I use the grid column property. 

This value tells the element to start from 

the first column and span all 12 columns. 

Let's examine the output again.

Play video starting at :6:5 and follow transcript6:05

These two segments are now in better shape, 

starting from the first column and 

spending all the way to the 12th. 

Let's add another selector for eight. 

Again, I copy the same code, 

but instead of starting from the first column this time, 

I'll start from say, the fifth column, 

and it will span across eight columns. 

Let's change the color here to bisque. 

The color now makes it obvious that the elements 

starts from the fifth column and spans eight columns. 

Let's add the other segments and 

then we'll examine the code again.

Play video starting at :7:22 and follow transcript7:22

Let's examine the output again.

Play video starting at :7:33 and follow transcript7:33

Now, this is looking a lot more presentable. 

There's also another way to view these columns. 

Click on "More browser auctions" 

and then on "Open Devtools" pane. 

You can select the button in the 

corner to select an element 

on the page to inspect then scan over the grid. 

The page is systematically 

divided into 12 different columns. 

You can configure your code 

according to your requirements.

Play video starting at :8:2 and follow transcript8:02

Grids like these are really useful when it 

comes to designing something like a magazine, 

newspaper or page layout, 

which can replicate these models. 

Now, you know about the basic grid layout 

in the 12 column grid.