Earlier you learned about the different types of CSS selectors. 

Remember CSS selectors correspond to specific elements or 

element groups in an HTML document. 

In this video, you will learn about additional commonly used CSS selectors. 

But before you explore them, let's briefly revise the ones you've already covered. 

You learned about element or type selectors. 

The element selector allows developers to select html elements based on their 

element type. 

You also get ID selectors, ID Selectors use the ID attribute of html element. 

Since the ID is unique within a web page, 

it allows the developer to select a specific element for styling. 

You were also introduced to class selectors. 

Class selectors allow you to select elements based on the class attribute 

applied to them. 

With class selectors, 

you can apply rules to all elements with the specified class name. 

Those are the CSS selectors you have learned about previously. 

Hopefully, you've experienced how useful and effective they can be, but 

that's not all. 

As the CSS code based evolved over time, 

more selectors were added to improve the design and styling effect of CSS. 

Let's explore a few of these widely used selectors. 

First, let's focus on attribute selectors. 

The attribute selector has a few syntax variations. 

Attribute selectors match the attribute of value for a given element. 

Can you recall what attributes and value mean? 

A quick recap, let's say you have a html image tag, 

img is the name of the tag, while src and alt are the names of its attributes. 

The actual name of the image file, first.jpeg is the value. 

Now let's explore an example of how attribute selectors can be used. 

Say you have an html file with three a tags, 

each with a h ref attribute that points to a different page on the meta website. 

The first one has no class, whereas the second one has a class called home, and 

the third class called about. 

With different variations of the attribute selectors you can target different 

attributes of the html. 

For instance, you can style all elements that have a defined class by adding class 

inside the square brackets. 

In this case, it will turn the second and third link green. 

Alternatively, you can target all three elements by inserting the href attribute, 

a star and a common value that is part of all the links that you want to target. 

In this case, it can be the text meta. 

Now all three links will be green because each link contains the word meta. 

Or you can target only the first element by adding the specific link as the value 

of the href attribute, that you want to target inside the square brackets. 

Wherever there is an attribute on a web page, 

you can use some variation of an attribute selector to modify it. 

This makes attribute selectors a very flexible styling tool, but 

let's move on to two other widely used selectors that you need to know about. 

Nth-of-type and nth-child selectors, 

the syntax of these two selectors is very similar. 

As their name suggests, these selectors target the nth-child or 

nth-type of a specified parent element, but what does parent mean exactly? 

Well, say you have a few list elements in an unordered list element. 

The unordered list element is the parent tag in this case, and 

the three list elements are the children. 

Now let's specify that the second list element must have a certain styling. 

In this case, you can use both the nth-of-type and 

the nth-child selectors to do that. 

Both will produce the same output, 

where the second list element will be colored aqua in this case. 

Another commonly used selector is the star selector, 

just like in many other programming languages, star selectors are used for 

selecting all the elements of a web page. 

It will affect all the elements in the html file. 

It is especially helpful when you want to reset the default settings and 

styles that browsers use before they apply your styling to the web page. 

Finally, did you know that you can group selectors? 

If you want to apply the same styling to more than one type of element, 

like the heading one and paragraph elements you can use group selectors. 

Instead of using element selectors where you use a rule for every element, 

such as heading 1 and P you can type h1, p and then add the CSS properties. 

The CSS rule will then be applied to all heading one and paragraph elements. 

Group selectors can save you a lot of time, 

they're also called selector stacking. 

In this video, you reviewed the CSS selectors that you are familiar with. 

You also learned about additional widely used CSS selectors, their syntax and 

how they can be used to target specific elements on your web pages. 

The selectors covered where, attribute selectors of type and 

nth-child selectors, star selectors, and group selectors. 

Learning how to use the CSS selectors is important because it allows you to be more 

specific when styling your web pages. 

In the rest of this lesson, you'll be introduced to several advanced selectors. 

At first, they might seem more complex than the ones covered in this video, but 

with a bit of practice, they will become part of your everyday web styling toolkit.

(Required)

English

​