By now you should know the basics of CSS animation. 

It's time to explore 

some more advanced properties and rules. 

In this video, you will learn 

how to use the animation property in 

combination with the @keyframes rule 

to create advanced animations. 

When developers want to create complex animations, 

they use the animation property. 

But to control the execution 

of the steps of the animation, 

they use the @keyframe rule. 

Next, let's explore the syntax of the @keyframe rule, 

and the animation property. 

The @keyframe rule specifies the name of the animation, 

and the individual keyframes for the animation. 

You define each keyframe with 

a keyframe selector and CSS styles for that keyframe. 

The @keyframe rule can also use the optional keywords, 

from and to, to show transitions. 

The animation name links 

the animation to a specific keyframe rule. 

The animation property has a number of 

subproperties like animation name, 

animation delay, and so on. 

You can use a shorthand CSS syntax to 

set all the subproperties of the animation property. 

But say you want one or more 

of them to have the default settings, 

you simply leave them out. 

However, each of the subproperties 

can be listed individually as well. 

To understand animation cues, 

let's explore a simple animation of 

a clock with hour and minute hands. 

The HTML code for the clock will 

consist of only three basic elements, 

which are the div class called clock, and inside it, 

a div class called minutes, 

and another div class called hours. 

Take note how both hours and minutes 

have an additional common class called hand. 

In order to let the clock work, 

you need this additional hand class 

with its own CSS rules. 

But since the focus of this lesson is to 

understand the animation part of the CSS, 

the basic styling properties of 

the clock are not covered now. 

All that you need to know is that you create two classes, 

clock and hand, 

and insert style rules that specify 

the basic layout and appearance of the clock and hands. 

So far, the output of the CSS is 

a static blue clock face and 

red hands with white borders. 

Now, you can configure the animation 

for both the hour and minutes classes. 

The only difference between the two will be 

the speed at which they change positions. 

For the minutes class, you add the animation property 

with the value of six seconds, infinite linear. 

For the hours class, 

you add the animation property with the value 

of cycle 60 seconds infinite linear. 

These two rules set 

the animation name cycle to complete iterations for 

respective timings over an infinite time duration 

and linear timing function. 

Since the other animation properties are not mentioned, 

they are set to the default values. 

Finally, you can add the @keyframe rule. 

Type @keyframes cycle, 

and then the two special keywords, 

namely from and to. 

For the from keyword, 

add the transform property with 

the value of rotate zero degrees. 

For the to keyword, 

add the transform property with 

the value of rotate 360 degrees. 

Since keyframes is a type of rule in CSS, 

we will be adding these details inside curly braces. 

There will be a follow-up reading 

about keyframes after this video. 

What exactly does this CSS animation do? 

Well, it uses the transform property 

to rotate the cycle associated with 

both the hours and minute classes from 

the value of 0-360 degrees. 

The combination of properties and rules will give 

a seamless appearance of a clock in continuous motion. 

In this video, you've learned how 

to use the animation property and 

the @keyframe rule together to get a specific effect. 

CSS offers endless creativity when it comes to animation. 

The properties and rules you covered 

can be configured in many more ways. 

For instance, you can 

combine them with other elements like 

images to achieve amazing animations using purely CSS.