By now you should know that CSS offers 

many possibilities for creating interesting animations. 

But to make your animations more complex and exciting, 

you need to have good control over the timing. 

That's why you need to know how to work with keyframes. 

In this video, you will learn how to do 

a basic keyframe animation in CSS. 

Previously, you learned how to animate a bouncing ball 

using the HTML canvas element and JavaScript. 

This time, you'll learn how to create 

the same animation using CSS. 

I opened Visual Studio Code and created 

my basic HTML structure in a file named index.html. 

In the head element, I added a link element to reference 

a CSS file named styles.css. 

First, I'll add the HTML element that will be animated. 

In this case, the element 

will represent the bouncing ball. 

I add a div element to 

the body element and set its ID attribute to ball.

Play video starting at ::57 and follow transcript0:57

Now I open styles.css. 

First, I add the keyframes definition. 

I'll name this animation bounce. 

Next, I add the from keyword with 

open and closed curly brackets to 

define the starting state of the animation. 

The starting position should be 

the default position of the element, 

so I add the transform property and set 

its value to translate 3D with the coordinates 000. 

These two values are the coordinates along the x, 

y, and z axes in 3D space. 

Next, I add the two keyword with 

open and closed curly brackets to 

define the ending state of the animation. 

The ending position should be 

640 pixels right of the starting position. 

To do this, I add 

the transform property and set its value to 

transform 3D with the coordinates 640 pixels 00. 

This means that the element is 

translated by 640 pixels on 

the x-axis and zero pixels on the y and z-axis. 

Finally, I add a CSS rule for the ball. 

I use the ID selector to select the ball element. 

First, I need to add a set of 

properties to make the element render as a ball. 

To do this, I set 

the width and height properties to 80 pixels.

Play video starting at :2:21 and follow transcript2:21

Then I set the border radius to 50 percent. 

This will round the corners of the elements 

so much that it will appear like a circle. 

Finally, I set the background color property 

to #62687F to fill in the color of the circle. 

I save the file and open index.html in live preview.

Play video starting at :2:44 and follow transcript2:44

Great, the ball is rendering correctly. 

Now to connect the animation to the element, 

I open styles.css again. 

In the CSS rule for the ball element, 

I add the animation property 

and set its value to bounce 2s. 

This will play the bounce animation 

over a two second duration. 

I then add the animation direction 

property and set its value to alternate. 

This will play the animation in 

reverse when it completes. 

Then finally, I add the animation 

iteration count property and set its value to infinite. 

This will play the animation loop infinitely. 

I save the file and open 

index.html again in live preview.

Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35

The animation plays, but 

the speed of the movement is not consistent. 

The ball moves slowly at the start, 

then speeds up in the middle and slows 

down again at the end of the animation. 

This is because the default timing function is 

the ease function that animates with this behavior. 

There are many timing functions available such as ease, 

linear, ease in, and ease out. 

You can read more about this in the additional resources. 

To match the animation that I 

built in HTML and JavaScript, 

I set the animation timing function to linear. 

I open styles.css again. 

In the CSS rule for the ball element, 

I update the animation property and set 

its value to bounce 2s linear. 

This will play the bounce animation over 

a two second duration using the linear function. 

I save the file and open 

index.html again in live preview. 

Now my animation plays exactly as I intended it to do.

Play video starting at :4:31 and follow transcript4:31

In this video, you learned how to create 

a simple keyframe animation with CSS. 

But CSS animations and keyframes are quite powerful. 

Try challenging yourself and 

see what animations you can build.