Have you ever had a broken power outlet in your home, 

or maybe a light switch stopped working? 

When that happens, you usually call 

an electrician to come fix the problem. 

When they arrive, they have many tools with them to test 

the wiring in your home to 

figure out the cause of the problem. 

As a developer, if 

your webpage isn't displaying correctly, 

you also need tools to help 

inspect and diagnose the cause of the problem. 

This is why the developer tools in 

your web browser are so useful. 

Every web browser comes with a set of tools to 

assist in the development of 

web pages and web applications. 

There are different diagnostic functions 

that the developer tools provide. 

These include viewing error logs, 

debugging JavaScript code, 

inspecting HTTP requests and responses, 

inspecting performance and 

memory usage of JavaScript code, 

inspecting CSS grid and flexbox layouts, 

inspecting HTML and CSS rendering, and live editing. 

Inspecting HTML and CSS rendering 

will probably help you the 

most while building your webpage, 

and for that reason, it'll be 

the main focus of this video. 

Although, we will return to 

live editing closer to the end of the video. 

Right-clicking in your browser and clicking 

Inspect opens the developer tools. 

This means you have your page and its HTML 

document side-by-side on screen at the same time. 

This allows you to highlight 

a certain displayed element on the rendered page, 

like the logo, and note 

its corresponding HTML highlighted 

in the developer tools. 

Think of all the time it will save you when you're trying 

to locate the code of a troublesome element. 

Also, when you have 

the element on the web page highlighted, 

you can inspect the CSS rules 

applied to it in the developer tools. 

That makes finding problems 

easier because you can identify 

which CSS rules are being applied to 

an element and what the properties of those rules are. 

Next, let's move on to the box model, 

a CSS and HTML feature 

that you can inspect using developer tools. 

Depending on your web browser, 

it will display beside the CSS rules 

or in a dedicated tab called Computed, 

which is located beside the Styles tab. 

You can use the box model to identify 

the outcome of the CSS rules applied to an element. 

This will help pinpoint if a CSS rule is 

incorrectly applied or has an incorrect property value. 

No matter what kind of problem you have in your code, 

you have to systematically use 

the diagnostic developer tools 

to figure out what's going on. 

But what about combining different developer tools? 

While being able to inspect HTML and 

CSS rendering is undeniably useful, 

it can be more powerful when 

used together with live editing, 

your HTML and CSS. 

With live editing, you can update HTML and 

CSS code inside of the developer tools. 

This allows you to test CSS rule changes and 

adjust HTML elements to verify fixes before 

permanently adding them into your code and saves a lot of 

time because you spend less time 

editing and reloading your webpages. 

Isn't that great? In this video, 

you've explored how using browser developer tools can 

assist with debugging HTML and CSS code. 

Just like the electrician, 

you as a developer have many tools at 

your disposal to inspect and diagnose problems, 

and developer tools definitely make creating and 

maintaining webpages and web applications easier. 

The next reading, we'll explore 

developer tools in more detail.