One of the frustrations you're likely to run into will be 

compatibility issues that occur when 

rendering your CSS files on different browsers. 

Well, you can use code and 

specialized websites to sort 

out these compatibility issues. 

In the next couple of minutes, 

you will learn about the interactivity of 

CSS with other browsers and how you 

can add code to your CSS files 

to ensure compatibility with these browsers. 

You will also learn about 

the specialized websites available 

that you can use to check whether 

your code is valid on multiple browsers. 

CSS has been around for a long time and has 

evolved quite significantly since 

it was first introduced. 

As new features are added to the CSS specification, 

compatibility issues can occur while 

the different browsers decide on 

the implementation of the new features. 

While all the major browsers are 

mostly in alignment on how CSS is implemented, 

there are still browser-specific differences that occur, 

which sometimes may disturb the layout, styling, 

and other responsive components related to CSS. 

Additionally, each browser has 

its own default CSS properties 

for different HTML elements. 

Most browsers have their own specific engines 

that are used for rendering HTML and CSS. 

Examples of these include Safaris Engine Webkit, 

Google Chrome, and other chromium-based browsers 

like Edge and Operas Blink. 

As a result, different browsers can have 

different ways in which the CSS rules get displayed, 

even if the styling and alignment are defined correctly. 

The changes that occur are usually subtle. 

For example, colors and fonts may 

appear slightly different from the original styling, 

and this may affect the user's experience. 

However, sometimes the difference 

can be more noticeable, 

like with layouts, specifically involving alignment. 

Let's explore one such example now 

involving the use of flex and grid layouts. 

The most common layouts that 

render differently depending on 

the browser and use or the flex and grid layouts. 

For example, animated grid 

sometimes don't animate correctly in certain browsers. 

Flexbox can have trouble handling 

the correct aspect ratios and alignment. 

To help identify and solve these issues, 

there are many websites available to you to 

check browser-specific CSS compatibility. 

For example, developers can use 

one of these sites to check if 

the border-radius rule in the CSS rule is 

compatible with all the different browsers. 

There are also websites that 

provide a virtual environment 

where you can select specific browsers 

and their versions. 

In these virtual environments, 

you can insert your code in the browser or run a website 

that you built that is already live to see how it works. 

It's also important to check 

the compatibility and rendering of websites on 

mobile devices that typically have 

different configurations than a website on a desktop. 

You now know that browser compatibility issues 

can occur in CSS. 

Let's examine an example of 

browser-specific settings and how you can 

ensure that your CSS code is compatible. 

There are browsers specific 

settings that you can add to ensure that 

your CSS code is compatible and 

works properly with that particular browser. 

Let's take the example of 

the Chrome browser and query it. 

First, I need to ensure that 

my CSS code is compatible with the browser. 

Queries require the use of media rules. 

These rules are used to apply 

different styles to different media types or devices. 

The webkit main device pixel ratio, 

or webkit device pixel ratio is 

a media query rule which is used to 

specify the density of the schemes. 

These webkit rules are part 

of the media query rule used as 

a non-standard way of setting 

parameters for aspects such as screen resolution, 

viewport, height of the browser, and so on. 

I've set the value to be zero for this example, 

typically the values are 0.75, 1, or 1.5. 

I can also set the properties for specific rules. 

In this example, I've used 

the general query and I've applied it to a paragraph. 

If I want to configure some of 

the settings only for specific browsers, 

I can do that as well. 

In this example, notice that I've set 

the CSS rules to be compatible 

only with the Safari browser. 

Similar to defining rules inside the CSS file, 

Internet Explorer makes use of 

conditional comments inside HTML, 

which makes the code compatible with Internet Explorer. 

The support for conditional comments in 

the latest versions of Internet Explorer 

has been deprecated, 

but they served as an important bridge to 

ensure compatibility with earlier versions. 

There are a number of media queries and 

variations for these conditional comments and 

other browser-specific settings that I can 

add to the CSS and HTML code. 

Adding such media queries and 

other CSS code for setting compatibility with browsers 

is a vast topic all by itself that can be 

explored beyond the scope of conventional CSS rules. 

Fortunately, there are 

many CSS libraries available to help 

ensure that your CSS rules 

are consistent across browsers, 

such as modernizer, reset.css, and normalized.css. 

Previously, when CSS incompatibilities 

were quite prevalent among different browsers, 

a simple solution was found in the form of CSS reset. 

A CSS reset file consists of rules 

that will reset the values 

for different types of selectors, 

pseudo-classes, and so on 

before the actual rules are implemented. 

While browser incompatibilities are greatly reduced, 

the practice of CSS reset is still followed by 

designers to ensure cross-browser compatibility. 

In this video, you learned about CSS compatibility and 

the issues that can occur between 

different browsers when rendering CSS, 

you learned how each browser has 

its own rendering engine and that developers can use 

specialized websites to check 

their CSS code is valid on multiple browsers. 

Finally, you explored 

browser-specific settings that you can add to 

your CSS code to ensure it's compatible and 

works properly with particular browsers. Well done.