An untested application is a wildcard. 

You have no idea whether it works or it doesn't work. 

A tested application gives you 

confidence that what was 

originally built is working as intended.

Play video starting at ::21 and follow transcript0:21

Hi, I am Benedict Hobart. 

I am a front-end engineer at Meta. 

Testing is really important 

to make sure your app is of high-quality and make 

sure it doesn't break and being 

able to test every feature in your app or every part 

of your product means that you'll 

be made aware of problems in your app. 

It's much easier to fix a problem when it happens than 

six months down the road when someone finds 

out it's broken and you need to work out what happened. 

You write a lot of code over time and 

one small problem in one subsystem 

can end up leading to a multitude of errors in your app. 

Like when you're building a messaging app 

and messaging goes down for an hour, 

people can't contact their friends and family. 

They can't contact their loved 

ones, they're disconnected. 

It's really important for 

your users that you build something reliable and 

doesn't break and testing is the easiest way to do that. 

When I first learned 

front-end testing it was actually pretty satisfying 

to get the tooling working and then to have 

your own app that you just build, 

executed automatically or exercised 

in some continuous integration somewhere. 

Front-end testing and testing is 

a whole matter is very important. 

We have this whole initiative 

or called better engineering, 

which is about building high-quality applications. 

We approach testing in a number of ways. 

We've got end-to-end testing, 

which we basically spin up 

a web browser in the cloud and we run 

tests that interact with the browser automatically 

and make sure that the app is working. 

Then there's unit testing, 

which is usually a good case for unit testing, 

is in something like when you're 

doing end-to-end encrypted messaging, 

you want to make sure your cryptography 

works as you'd expect 

that the inputs meant match 

the outputs and that certain things are guaranteed. 

The people involved in front-end testing, 

I guess there's two main groups. 

There's the product teams building products 

that our consumers clients 

use and they're the ones that should be 

writing tests to make sure that their product is stable. 

Then there's like the teams that 

build the test frameworks themselves. 

They're the ones that makes sure that those tests 

run with high reliability, 

that those tests run before we ship code to users 

or to people so we aren't shipping broken experiences. 

I see it as a responsibility of 

everyone to be writing 

tests at the company for their respective parts. 

There's not going to be one 

super team that comes in and tests 

your product for you because 

they don't know how your product works. 

Usually what we do is set a testing bar so for 

every new feature we make sure there's 

at least a few tests for it. 

That way our product isn't actually 

ready to release until we've already tested it, 

and so that gives us a lot 

more confidence than we otherwise would have. 

Testing is valuable, 

it can feel like a waste of time at first, but it is not. 

Eight months down the line when 

your app explodes and you're 

trying to work out why 

those testings could have saved you. 

The testing is also its own, 

like challenging activity writing good test is 

hard and take pride in writing tests in the same way, 

you'd take pride in building 

any of the products you want to build. 

Good luck in your first experience in testing, 

it's going to be very fundamental 

as you move forward in your career.