congratulations. 

You've reached the end of this module on interactive CSS where you delve deeper 

into CSS by applying increasingly specific styling to various elements. 

It's now time to review what you've learned. 

You began this module with a lesson on creating layouts. 

You learned about CSS web layouts where you discuss the grid and flex box module, 

common flex layouts and examples of common page layouts like column grid and 

stack CSS units of measurement. 

Basic flex box flex charts and CSS grids. 

In this lesson, 

you also applied what you learned by creating a custom layout using grids. 

In an un graded lab lesson two focuses on CSS selectors. 

You learned about widely used advanced selectors. 

All selectors and their specificity combination selectors that 

demonstrate the granular selection of embedded elements targeted CSS 

style given elements using granular selection and the concepts and 

practical uses of pseudo classes and elements. 

In this lesson you also completed an ungrateful lab testing your ability to 

style given elements using granular selection. 

The third lesson was about C. 

S. S. 

Effects and in this portion of the module you learned about what effects are and 

how web presentation can be enhanced by the use of effects, how to use text 

effects like shadow and glow CSS animation and basic animation principles. 

CSS key frame animation and pre processes to demonstrate simple key frame animation. 

Additionally you completed an un graded lab about transforming and 

transitioning elements and their role in animation. 

The fourth and last lesson was about debugging where you learned how to inspect 

diagnose and resolve CSS and html issues in your exploration of this topic, 

you learned about common errors, handling errors, debugging the front end, 

how browser developer tools can assist with debugging html and CSS issues, 

conditional comments and UI testing. 

You should now be familiar with the basics of interactive CSS and 

the debugging tools available to diagnose and resolve CSS and html issues. 

You also know more about creating layouts using CSS selectors and 

applying CSS effects. 

You've done a great job so far, keep up the good work and 

continue progressing in your learning journey.