Have you ever wondered how when you turn on the dial or press a different button on 

your washing machine for a specific wash, it just knows what to do. 

You select sports wash and the machine runs a wash 

cycle at the same temperature every time or you turn the dial to synthetics and 

the machine runs a wash for the exact same length of time. 

Each time functions work just like this, running the same set of stored 

instructions repeatedly without requiring you to adjust the settings every time. 

Over the next few minutes you learn about the advantages of using functions in 

JavaScript, you will learn how functions are structured and 

how to declare a function in your code with the use of parameters. 

Finally, you will discover how to call or 

invoke a function with your code with the use of arguments. 

But first, what is a function and what does it do? 

One of the basic principles of programming can be summed with 

the acronym DRY in other words don't repeat yourself. 

And it's thanks to functions that you can avoid repetition. 

With functions you can take several lines of code that performs a set of 

related actions and then group them together under a single label. 

Then when you need to run the code that you've saved, you just invoke or 

call the function. 

You can run the code as many times as you want. 

For example, suppose you want to add two numbers. 

The process could be as follows. 

First creates two variables a and b. 

And assign each a number value, then create another variable c, 

which holds the value of a and b added together. 

Finally output the value of c to the console.

Play video starting at :1:49 and follow transcript1:49

This piece of code works and adds two numbers together. 

But what if you want to execute this code more than once? 

Well you can do this by placing this block of code inside a function. 

You declare a function by typing the keyword function, then space and 

then the name of the function. 

You can name the function nearly anything you want. 

In this example it's named addTwoNums after the function name. 

Place a left and right parenthesis. 

Finally place a left and a right curly brace to complete the function. 

The code to be executed will then be placed in between the left and 

right curly braces. 

And this is known as the body of the function.

Play video starting at :2:31 and follow transcript2:31

It's important to remember that a function declaration on its own doesn't execute 

the code. 

It's just specifying what operations should be performed. 

Once the function is executed to run the functions code you need to call or 

invoke the function and this is achieved by typing the function named 

followed by the opening and closing parenthesis. 

Instead of saying run a function developers may say that they 

call a function or invoke a function but don't worry. 

All these terms mean the same thing to execute the code inside 

the functions body. 

Next let's explore another major advantage of functions. 

The use of values. 

Did you notice how the add to numbs example was just adding the numbers 10 and 

20. 

These numbers are are chosen values for this function but 

this is just one example of the use of values with functions you can use 

any values you want take for example the add to numbs function created earlier. 

The function accepted, no arguments in other words, 

no parameters were defined while variables can be used to produce results. 

There are limitations as variables a and b have specific values and 

the function would always give the same result. 

So let's change this function to make it more flexible to do this. 

You need to pass values to the function. 

These values are known as function parameters and 

are placed inside the function definition.

Play video starting at :4:9 and follow transcript4:09

The values passed to the function are called arguments. 

Let's explore this a little further now by setting a and 

b as parameters instead of using variables. 

I can easily plug in any two numbers that I want to add parameters 

are sort of like variable names. 

They allow us to set changeable values on each function call. 

Functions with parameters can accept any kind of value and result in clean. 

More efficient code building functions this way allows you to write flexible 

functions that can be reused with various values as many times as you need. 

For example by passing values as arguments to our function, addTwoNums. 

We can call it as many times as we want and as long as we send it to values, 

it will add them together and output the result. 

In this lesson you learned about functions in JavaScript first you created 

a function without parameters and 

assigned fixed values inside the body of the function itself. 

Then you learned about function parameters to pass values to functions. 

It's important to remember that function parameters act sort of like variable 

names. 

The actual values that these variables will be assigned will come in the form of 

function arguments. 

At the time the function is invoked.

Play video starting at :5:30 and follow transcript5:30

You're now familiar with the advantages of using functions declaring a function with 

parameters and calling a function with arguments. 

Working with functions is common in day to day development and 

is one of the core skills a developer needs to master as they help you write 

more efficient reusable code.