Imagine that a restaurant has 

been booked for a wedding reception, 

and the big day has finally arrived. 

Unfortunately, not everything is going smoothly and it 

seems that many expected guests have not yet arrived. 

How do we know that empty seats 

should be filled with guests? 

It's as simple as placing a small sign on each table. 

Each one tells us a person is not currently here, 

but a person should be here. 

In JavaScript, there are similar situations in which you 

need to mark the places where 

a value or object should exist. 

In this video, you'll learn about three types 

of empty values: the null datatype, 

the undefined datatype, and empty strings. 

I'll also demonstrate some of the scenarios in 

which you can expect to encounter these values. 

We'll start with the null datatype. 

Null represents the intentional absence 

of any object value. 

It is also a return value 

of some built-in JavaScript methods. 

For example, let's say you create 

the variable named letters and 

assign it a string value of abc. 

You'd like to search for the letter a in the string. 

You could do this by using 

the match method to search inside the variable. 

This returns an array with 

several pieces of information, 

but the most important part is that it confirms 

the a was found in the string. 

This time, let's use 

the same method on a different letter, 

the letter d. The return value 

of the match method should be an array, 

which is a object in JavaScript, 

but since the d letter cannot be found, 

the array with the result can't be built, 

so null appears instead 

to indicate the absence of an object. 

In JavaScript, there may also 

be times when you are building something that 

hasn't been clearly defined 

yet and so you can't assign a value to it. 

Fortunately, there is a way to store it so that you 

can assign it later using the undefined datatype. 

While some data types in 

JavaScript can hold many possible values, 

others are constrained to just a few. 

For example, the string data type 

can hold a virtually infinite combination of 

characters while the Boolean data type 

is limited to the values true or false. 

The undefined data type can only 

hold one value, undefined. 

You may recall seeing this in your practice code. 

For example, all functions return undefined by 

default unless it's been decided 

to return a specific value instead. 

When you use console.log to output something like a name, 

you will see undefined displayed after the output. 

This is because console.log is 

a function and you are not returning a value. 

Another common situation where the undefined value 

appears is when a variable 

is declared without an assignment. 

For example, suppose I create a variable named noise, 

but do not assign it a value. 

You might recall that this is valid 

JavaScript and the code will run. 

However, as the variable has not been assigned a value, 

JavaScript automatically assigns the value of undefined. 

We can even explore this further. 

For example, let's say you use console. 

to output the unassigned variable noise. 

Then on the line below, 

you assign the noise variable 

the string value of thunder. 

What will happen if you then output 

this variable again to the console? 

The console will output the string thunder. 

This means only the instances after 

the declaration was take the assigned value. 

Even if the declaration assigns a value, 

any uses of the variable before 

the declaration will still return undefined. 

While it's important to understand this behavior, 

it's usually best practice to always assign 

your variables with values when you declare them. 

As you may have noticed, 

JavaScript gives you some flexibility, 

but you still have limitations. 

For example, if you tried to console.log 

a variable that hasn't been declared in your entire code, 

your program execution will stop, 

and rather than undefined, 

a reference error will be output. 

One way to think about it is that 

the undefined datatype acts like 

a placeholder for a value that 

the JavaScript engine knows to exist. 

It just has not been specified. 

Another scenario of undefined is when you 

try to access an object property that doesn't exist. 

For example, let's say you have 

a game object with 

a property score that has a value of 1,000. 

The property contains all lowercase words. 

Let's say you try to access this property, 

but you make a spelling mistake and spell score with 

a capital S. JavaScript 

can't find anything with this information, 

so it gives you the value undefined instead. 

Finally, let's explore the last empty value, 

which you might be already 

familiar with, the empty string. 

This is a string without any characters inside 

of it and it can be built in a few ways, 

such as with single quotes or 

double quotes with no characters in between them. 

In this video, you learned about 

the differences between null, undefined, 

and empty strings, as well as some 

of the common situations in which they appear.