# 2.1_Video_What are the rules of hooks?

By now, you should have a fairly good idea about the purpose and functionality of hooks in React.

And you may have even started using hooks in some of your solutions.

If so, you may have encountered some cases where hooks might have made your code **invalid**.

Well, that's because there are a few basic rules to hooks that you need to be aware of and follow in your React apps.

## basic rules

In this video, you will learn all about the rules of hooks in React and why they are so important, and why you would only call hooks at the top level and from React functions.

The four main rules of hooks are as follows.

- First, you should only call hooks from a React component function.
- Second, you should only call hooks at the top level of a React component function.
- Third, you are allowed to call multiple state hooks or effect hooks inside a component.
- And finally, always make these multiple hook calls in the same sequence.
- 首先，你应该只从 React 组件函数中调用钩子。
- 其次，你应该只在 React 组件函数的顶层调用钩子。
- 第三，您可以在组件内调用多个状态钩子或效果钩子。
- 最后，始终以相同的顺序进行多个钩子调用。

Now, let's unpack each of these rules in a little more detail.

```js
function GoalForm(props) {
    const [formData, setFormData] = React.useState({goal: "", by: ""});
    ...

    return (
        <>
        </>
    );
}
```

- 这是component function
- `{` 下的第一行就是useState

## First

The first rule means that you should not be calling hooks from regular Javascript functions, instead you should only call them from inside a React component function.

From a built-in hook call, for example, from the useEffect hook or from a custom hook.

In this example, the code describes a button that can be clicked to pick up a new name for a pet.

The nameLooper function is used to limit the pet name choices to only fluffy, rexy, or gizmo.

Notice that the useState hook is accessed at the outermost scope of the app function, it has not been used anywhere other than this.

For example, inside the nameLooper function scope.

However, you may have observed that this rule does not prevent you from using the state setting function which is named setPetName here.

State setting calls can be used wherever required.

## second
The second rule means you must call your hooks before a return statement outside of loops, conditions or nested functions.

If you use a hook in a condition, you're breaking rules.

For example, here, the useEffect hook has been used inside the if conditional statement, that makes the use of the hook in this code invalid.

## third
The third rule is straightforward.

There can be multiple hook calls as long as they are always in the same order.

What that means is that you cannot place hook calls inside conditional because that might result in an invocation of a hook being skipped when compared with the previous render.
这意味着您不能将钩子调用放在条件内，因为与之前的渲染相比，这可能会导致钩子的调用被跳过。

In this example, with the same code that describes a button that can be clicked to pick up a new name for a pet, the useState hook has been used incorrectly.

Rather than using the state setting function said petName inside the nameLooper function, the useState hook has been used here instead.

If you were to compile the code and run the app, you may find that the expected output is returned.

For example, I'd like to name my pet fluffy with a pick a new name button rendered beneath.

However, as soon as you click the pick a new name button, you would receive an invalid hook called error.

## fourth

That would violate the fourth rule.

In other words, it might disrupt the sequence of invocation from one render to the next.

Such a violation would result in errors.

If you want to call an effect conditionally you can still do so, but make sure to place the condition inside the hook.

Here, the useEffect hook is invoked initially followed by the if conditional statement.

So now, you're not breaking the rules and the code is valid.

## recap
So let's recap on the four main rules of hooks.

You should only call hooks from a React component function.

You should only call hooks at the top level of a React component function.

You are allowed to call multiple state hooks or effect hooks inside a component.

And finally, always make these multiple hook calls in the same sequence, and that's it.

In this video, you learn the main rules of using hooks in React and why you would only call hooks at the top level of and from React functions.

As long as you stick to these few simple rules, you can enjoy using hooks in your React solutions successfully.