# 2.4_Video_Fetching data – Putting it all together

The little lemon restaurant wants to run a competition for its customers where lucky customer will receive a free meal at a restaurant.

All customers that are signed up to the little lemon app will be entered into the competition and a random customer will be selected as the winner.

In this video, I will show you how to get some random user data from a website.

I will be using the random.me website to access random user data for this demonstration.

I have prepared some code for this app to fetch the user data from the website.

If I execute this code, it will initially output the data pending texts in the H1 heading.

At the same time in the background, it will be carrying out the fetch data function to retrieve the user information from the random user website.

Notice that I have the dev tools open and the Network tab active.

I will click on the North router link dropdown to artificially slow down my connection.

In the dropdown, I will choose the slow 3G preset.

This is so that I can observe the data pending text in the heading before the data gets fetched from the web.

Once the data has been successfully fetched, it updates the view with the data returned H1 heading and the user information that has been retrieved.

In this example, the data that was requested was the first name and the last name of this random user.

Let's step through this code in more detail.

So first, I have the app function and inside of it, following the rules of hook, I'm invoking the use state hook at the top level of the component.

The initial value of the state variable is an empty array.

Next, I have defined the fetch data function, which is fetching data from the random user.name API, then it retrieves the response from the API in JSON format.

It then updates the state variable with this JSON data.

You may notice that I'm not using a hook inside the fetch data function because that's against the rules of hooks.

After that, I'm calling the use effect hook and from inside they use effect hook, I'm calling the fetch data function which I've defined previously.

Finally, I'm using conditional logic to decide what to return.

First, I'm using the object.keys code snippet to put all the keys of the user object into an array.

Since object.keys returns an array, I can access the length property on this array and check if the length of this array is greater than zero.

If it is, it means that the contents of the state array has changed because as you may remember, the state variables array was empty.

So if the array is no longer empty, then the div section will be returned with the H1 tag and a couple of H2 tags.

Otherwise, the H1 tag below is returned that reads data pending.

Sometimes it can take a little bit of time for the fetch data function to retrieve the data requested.

Therefore, the data pending message will be displayed initially after the code is executed.

Once the data has arrived from the fetch data call, this change in state causes a re-render of my component.

So the return statements ternary operator is re-evaluated and that returns all the data from my call to the fetch API.

This is essentially how you get data from the web using React.

So the a little lemon restaurant would be able to apply the same logic to their customer list API to select a random winner for their competition.

In this video, you have learned how to fetch data using the state and effect hook.