You've reached the end of this module on HTML. It's now time to review what you've learned in these lessons. You began this module by exploring the question, how is HTML and CSS used in the real-world? You learned about the role of HTML and CSS developer. What entry-level jobs and career paths are available to you, and what a day in the life of a developer looks like and who you'd work with as a HTML and CSS developer. You also learned what the relationship is between HTML and CSS. How HTML and CSS are continually improving, and how HTML and CSS usage has gone beyond desktop PCs. 

## metatags
Next, you learned about semantic and metatags. You should now be able to recognize how and why semantic tags are used. Use basic semantic tags and have an appreciation of the structured approach needed to produce a well-formed webpage. You also explored the topics of metadata and metatags using templates, layout design, and social media cards. Following your exploration of these topics, you should now be able to explain why metadata and metadata tags are used at basic Open Graph Protocol Meta tags to HTML documents and demonstrate the application of the OG protocol when setting up a social media card. 

## forms
You then moved on to study and forms. This topic included learning about forms and validation, client-side validation, form submission, radio buttons and browser differences. You learned how to create and test a basic form, identify the potential of HTML validation types, and explain how form send data to the web server. In addition, you should now be able to demonstrate the use of radio buttons and explain how to ensure that forms display consistently across browsers. 

## media
Following this introduction to user input and forums, you then covered media elements. This topic included video and audio, embedded players, iframes, and the canvas element. You should now be able to embed video and audio in a webpage. Create a video and audio player that can rate the media played. 

## iframe
Recognize the purpose of the iframe tag, and learn to identify and mitigate security risks when using the iframe tag and identify the uses of the canvas element. You should now be familiar with the basics of HTML. You now know more about the role of HTML and CSS developer and the things you'll be doing when working as one. Like using semantic tags to construct a well-formed webpage, or how to use inputs and forums or embed videos and audio. Well done. You're making good progress on your learning journey.