
The digital space is a world of connection and **opportunity**. 

Take this moment for example, the web has made it possible for you to **enroll** in this program where you will learn from the personal stories of developers at meta. 

Isn't that exciting? 

By the time, you have completed this professional certificate,  you can become a creator of digital experiences. 

Connection is **evolving** and so are you. 

You might not have a background in tech at all and that's okay. 

Even if you have no experience, 

this program can get your job ready within a single year. 

So, how can this professional certificate prepare you for 

a job at an organization like meta? 

The front end developer professional certificate will help you build job ready 

skills for a front end development role while earning a credential from meta. 

From meta developers you will learn about how they collaborated, create and 

test responsive, high performance websites and applications. 

You'll also discuss interesting topics with other aspiring front end 

developers and complete a range of coding exercises to improve your skills. 

It's important to complete all the courses in 

the certificate in order as each course will build on your skills. 

Although we have a recommended schedule for each course, 

the program is entirely self paced, which means your time is your own to manage. 

As you make your way through the first four courses in the certificate, 

you'll learn how to code interactive web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. 

You'll also learn how to use the bootstrap framework before diving into the world 

of React, a widely used JavaScript library that was created here at meta. 

Websites built using React are fast, scalable, secure and 

allow for rich user experience. 

It's no wonder it's the choice of leading companies. 

For your final project you will complete a beautiful professional website for your 

portfolio, complete with interactivity to showcase during your job search. 

You'll also be ready to collaborate with other developers as you will have 

learned to use GIT and GIT hub for version control. 

If you're hoping to operate independently or in a smaller team, not to worry. 

We've also got you covered when it comes to the basics of user experience. 

You'll learn how to research a user's needs, create wire frames 

using popular industry tools like Figma and design interactivity. 

In the final course, you will prepare for the coding interview. 

You'll practice your interview skills, refine your resume and tackle some 

common coding challenges that typically form part of technical job interviews. 

Once you complete the program, 

you'll get access to the meta career programs job board. 

A job search platform that connects you with over 200 employers who have committed 

to sourcing talent through meta certificate programs. 

Who knows where you'll end up? 

Whatever the future of connection looks like, you'll be part of its creation. 

Let's get started.