By now, you know that websites and files are 

stored on web servers located in datacenters. 

But what if you wanted to create your own website? 

Do you really need your own datacenter 

with specialized hardware and software? 

Thankfully, the answer is no. 

Developers can launch websites to 

the Internet using something known as web hosting. 

Web hosting is a service where you place 

your website and files on 

the hosting companies web server. 

You're essentially renting the space in 

return for stable and secure storage. 

You don't need to be accompanied to use a web host. 

Individuals can rent space too. 

In this video, you will learn 

about the different types of web hosting 

services that you can use for 

your websites and web applications. 

First, let me share with you some 

of the different hosting options available. 

These can include shared hosting, 

virtual private hosting, 

dedicated hosting, and Cloud hosting. 

Let's explore each of 

these hosting types in a little more detail now. 

The cheapest form of web hosting 

is known as shared hosting. 

You pay for a location on a web server 

containing many web hosting accounts with shared hosting. 

This means that you also share 

the service processing power, 

memory, and bandwidth with 

other websites that might slow your performance. 

This option is best for 

a small website with a small number of visitors. 

Many developers also use this as 

a low-cost sandbox environment to practice 

deploying or hosting their personal websites. 

Some companies offer free shared hosting, 

but with limitations and often 

have advertisements embedded in the webpages. 

Sites with more considerable demands use 

virtual private surface or VPS. 

A VPS is a virtual server with dedicated CPU, 

memory, and bandwidth resources. 

It will be running on a hardware server with 

other VPS instances but as 

the resources are fixed per VPS instance, 

your website is unlikely to be impacted by 

the performance of other VPS instances. 

A VPS instance will be 

more expensive than shared hosting. 

The next option up is to use dedicated hosting. 

This will be a hardware server 

that is dedicated to you only. 

All hardware, CPU, memory, 

and bandwidth resources are yours to use. 

Generally, this option is more 

expensive than a VPS hosting. 

The last type of web hosting is 

something you may have heard of. 

Cloud hosting and the Cloud has grown in popularity over 

the last decade and is often 

mentioned in various news and services you use. 

With Cloud hosting, your website 

is run in something called a Cloud environment, 

which spans across multiple physical and virtual servers. 

If a physical or virtual server fails, 

your website will run on 

a different server and stay online. 

The main advantage of Cloud hosting is that you can use 

as many resources as you 

need without hardware limitations. 

However, you pay based on resource use. 

For example, if you transfer 

a file from the Cloud to a web browser, 

you'll pay for the bandwidth used for 

that transfer at a fractional cent cost per megabyte. 

While this can quickly become more expensive, 

is allows websites and web applications 

to scale their costs as popularity grows. 

This is how many of the major web applications operate. 

In this video, you learned about web hosting and 

the different hosting options 

available to individuals and companies. 

Soon you will build your very first website. 

Are you excited to get it 

hosted so you can share it with the world? 

For more information on web hosting and Services, 

please see the additional reading 

at the end of this lesson.