By now you've learned how CSS styles individual html elements, 

but how does the web browser nowhere to place the elements on the screen? 

The web browsers normal way of calculating 

the position of html elements on the screen is called document flow. 

By default, nearly all html elements are organized into one of two 

categories namely in block and in line elements.



A block level element will occupy the full horizontal width of its parent element and 

the vertical height of its content. 

Each block level element will have a new line before and after. 

Therefore, multiple block level elements will stack on top of each other 

like a stack of boxes. 

In line elements only occupy the width and height of their content. 

They don't appear on a new line, hence the name in line. 

Therefore, multiple in line elements can form a row of elements. 

When coding in html, you need to be able to recognize and use block elements. 

Some examples of block level elements include the tags, div form and heading. 

You also need to be familiar with common in line elements. 

These include the tags anchor, image, input label, bold, 

italics, emphasis and span.


Let me demonstrate the difference between block and 

in line now by using an example of an html file containing div and span elements.



Okay, so, I've opened visual studio code here, 

I will now demonstrate an example where you will learn about document flow. 

First, I want you to notice that I have a div element containing three 

sentences of Lauren ipsum. 

A div or divided element is used to divide content into sections. 

If you don't speak Latin, don't worry. 

Lauren Ipsum is placeholder text that has been used since the 1500s.



Each sentence contains a span element that you may recall are in line elements.



Notice that all text is displayed in an unbroken flow of content in the browser.


In the code I have div and span elements. 

I am now going to change the middle sentence from a span to a div tag. 

Because the div tag is a block level element, notice that the sentence has been 

moved to a new line and the span element after it is also a new line. 

It's possible to change elements from block level to in line and vice versa. 

This can be done using the display CSS property.



Let me add a CSS file called style dot CSS. 

In my html file, let me give the middle sentence div element an Id. 

I now add a rule in the CSS file to change the element to an in line element. 

To create the CSS rule, I type hash middle and open the curly brackets. 

On the next line, I type display colon space in line semi colon. 

And on the next line I close the curly brackets, 

notice that the div has now changed to an in line element. 

If I want to change it back, I can just remove the property.



I have deleted the rule in the code to change the element to an in line element. 

Another way to achieve this outcome is to set the display property to block.



I have now changed the value for display to block. 

In another video, I will demonstrate to you that there are other values you 

can set for the display property to change the layout behavior of an element. 

Congratulations, you have now learned about block and in line elements in html. 

It's important for developers to be comfortable working with each and 

to know the differences.



It's important to remember that block elements begin on a new line and 

take up the full width of the page. 

And in line elements work within the flow of surrounding content rather than 

breaking onto their own line.