I think why front-end development is different 

is you have to work with designers, 

you've got to work with product managers. 

It's fundamentally very collaborative. 

It's got the right-brain algorithmic thinking 

and how to make things performant 

and work and then it's got the left-brain. 

How do you make things usable and enjoyable to use? 

I found my way into front-end engineering and 

now it's like I couldn't imagine leaving it.

Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28

Hello, I'm Benedict Hobart. 

People call me Benny. I'm a software engineer at Meta. 

I think a lot of 

people that get into front-end engineering, 

they think about front-end engineering 

as an engineering problem and you're building stuff, 

you're solving a problem. 

When you're doing is building products for 

people and you're helping 

people solve their own problems. 

There's a lot of collaboration that comes with that, 

working with designers, working with PMs. 

You're not some programmer slouched 

over a desk typing away all day. 

It's highly 

collaborative environment you're stepping into. 

I started when I was fairly young 

with building a fan website for a game called EverQuest. 

I first started making websites around that time, 

but I never really considered it as a career path. 

I actually left building websites and 

came back to it later in university. 

I think where I really actually started treating it like 

a career was in my second year of university, 

I had a cool cousin who was 

a programmer then he 

was like, "You should do this subject." 

What helped me initially was that I 

was building something I was excited by. 

I think it's the practicality 

of solving problems with software, 

that was really appealing. 

A typical day is I'll start 

off working from home 

or getting into the office and reviewing code, 

helping, giving advice on 

how things could be built better. 

I often have meetings with designers and 

product managers on the things that we want to build. 

I support a lot of 

engineers solving the problems they have. 

It's wide and varied and I think that's 

the exciting thing about 

getting into software in general. 

There's a lot of space to be 

a different type of engineer. 

You could get excited about solving 

these really hard technical challenging problems. 

But if you're doing it without 

a purpose, I lose motivation. 

It's like knowing that 

there's someone at the end of the day I'm hoping 

helps me focus my energy on the problems that 

do need to be solved versus problems that don't. 

I've been working on encrypted messaging, 

which is seriously important for a number of reasons. 

You take it very 

seriously when you're building those products 

that allow people to communicate safely and privately. 

When you're solving a really hard problem, 

it's easy to think you're not making any progress. 

I think everyone talks 

about imposter syndrome in the industry. 

If you're not making 

progress and you putting in these hours, 

you start to think, should I even be there? 

Can I solve this problem? 

That's a hard thing to get 

over and that's probably the worst part of the job. 

Technically, I think you're going to learn 

a lot of what I do in this course, 

going through how to write code, 

how to make it work, 

how to make it accessible, 

and to shipping it to people. 

Javascript, HTML CSS, Git, 

these are all foundational that you'll 

find across every web development company. 

When it comes to soft skills, 

there's a lot of empathy 

trying to understand other people's perspectives. 

Engineers, we care about performance, 

we care about accessibility, 

we care about things being correct. 

It usually takes engineers a long time to understand 

designer's perspective or product manager's perspective 

because you think so algorithmically, 

you need to solve every problem 

versus that 80 percent user problem. 

I work with a fantastic designer 

who actually jumps in on the diffs and 

I can ask him questions in 

the code and he can code a bit. 

I was talking about empathy, 

he has an understanding of the work I 

do and I've got an understanding of the work he does. 

At the end of the day, it's good to recognize that you're 

a software engineering and your job is to 

bring a lot of their vision to life. 

Likewise, a designer when 

get into your code and tell you 

how you should best to architect 

and structure your code, 

you need to give advice and you're there to support him. 

When you find an issue it's highly collaborative. 

A good front-end engineer will 

actually dip their toes into back-end. 

Problem-solving is consistently hard. 

Whenever you're learning and pushing yourself, 

you're going to run into roadblocks. 

Best advice is go easy on yourself. 

Going with the mentality that your goal is to grow 

and become a software engineer or a better person. 

Adopting a growth mindset to 

developing is going to be critical. 

Find time for yourself. 

I mean, it's not my place 

to talk about the psychology of being easy on yourself, 

but that's just as important as any 

of the engineering stuff you learn. 

For me personally, the role grows. 

As you build things and you solve problems, 

you get perspective into other problems 

and it's this idea of growing your scope. 

As an engineer yourself, how do you sort 

a list and how do you drop a list on a page? 

How do you make a button work? 

By the end of it, 

you're working on encrypted messaging. 

I think we're at a really 

exciting point in the industry, 

there are a lot of new exciting technologies. 

There are a lot of new ways 

and new products that are going to be built in 

the next coming years and finding 

those opportunities and solving 

new problems is deeply satisfying.