Every day you access information on your phone, like reading the news, purchasing 

goods and services or communicating with friends over social media. 

But how is all this information transferred behind the scenes? 

Your favorite websites and apps. 

Probably use API's and as a web developer, you'll discover that API's developer 

friendly, easily accessible and a very valuable and useful development tool. 

A PI is the acronym for application programming interface. 

An API is a set of functions and procedures for 

creating applications that access the features or data of an operating system, 

application or other service. 

If this still sounds a bit vague, just remember that the term API, 

is intentionally open too many applications and use cases. 

As a web developer, a lot of the day to day job involves working with API's. 

Some common API's that web developers work with include Browser, 

API REST API and Sensor-Based API. 

Over the next few minutes, you'll explore each of these API types and 

review a few specific examples. 

To begin with, here's a brief outline of how a piecewise functions. 

In Software development, 

API's are often the bridge between different components or systems. 

This earns them names like gateway or middleware. 

The term is used widely to represent many different tools and systems. 

Let's consider some examples of different API use cases. 

One common type of API, is Browser or Web APIs, 

which are built into the browser itself. 

They extend the functionality of the browser by adding new services and 

are designed to simplify complex functions and provide easy syntax for 

building advanced features. 

A good example, is the DOM API. 

The DOM API turns the html document into a tree of nodes that 

are represented as JavaScript objects. 

Another example, is the geolocation API that returns coordinates of where 

the browser is located. 

There are also other API's available for fetching data known as Fetch API drawing, 

graphics or Canvas API keeping history or history API. 

And client side storage also known as Web Storage API. 

Another critical type of API for web development is the RESTful or REST API. 

This kind of API provides data for popular web and mobile apps. 

These are also called web servers. 

Let's explore REST in a bit more detail. 

REST or representational state transfer, 

is a set of principles that help build highly efficient API's. 

One of the main responsibilities of these kinds of API's is sending and 

receiving data to and from a centralized database. 

We can query our own REST API or third party ones. 

One last type of API, 

that you might encounter as a web developer is a Sensor-Based API. 

This is what the internet of things also known as IOT is based on. 

These are actual physical senses that are interconnected with each other. 

The sensors can communicate through API and track and respond to physical data. 

Some examples are Philips hue, smart lights and node bots. 

That's a lot of API to think about. 

Fortunately, for web developers the most common data API is a RESTtful API which 

as you've learned is a web server that provides responses to requests. 

These API web servers are designed to provide the data backbone for 

a web client like a web page or mobile app. 

This means that these API's must be able to accomplish things like getting data or 

get, creating data. 

Also referred to as post updating data or put and deleting data or delete. 

API issues, REST principles and 

good design practices to create discoverable interfaces. 

This helps us get the exact response expected. 

But exactly how do they work? 

Here's a closer description of their activity. 

These API's use endpoints to specify how different resources can be accessed. 

The endpoint is built into the URL when accessing the API. 

Once the endpoint is hit, the API performs whatever service side 

processing is needed to build the response. 

Two common forms of response are full web page is a data form based on 

JavaScript called Jason. 

In this video, you explored some API's and as a web developer, 

you will frequently work with many different types of API's. 

You will often use API's to extend the abilities of systems or 

to act as a bridge between different components.