You've reached the end of this module on web development. 

Over the course of this module, you've explored the basics of how the web works 

and familiarize yourself with key concepts in core internet technologies. 

Let's recap the key skills that you gained along the way. 

You started the module with an overview of how the web works and 

explored the basics of web pages, web servers and web browsers. 

In terms of web pages, you should now be able to, differentiate 

between a website and a web page by outlining the key elements of each. 

Outline the purpose of html and CSS and provide an explanation of how they work. 

And identify the benefits that Javascript provides to a web page like 

interactivity and data processing. 

You've also explored the basics of web servers, and should be able 

to explain how a data center provides storage and power for web servers. 

Differentiate between the key functions of web server hardware and 

software and outline how a web server handles requests through HTTP or 

hypertext transfer protocol. 

And you explored the third key technology of the web, which is web browsers. 

Following this exploration, you should now be able to, explain what a web browser is, 

describe how a web browser receives content from a web server and 

displays it for users and outline the request response cycle. 

After your study of how the web works, you investigated core internet technologies. 

You should now be able to explain the concept of IP addresses and 

how they facilitate the transfer of data across the internet, demonstrate 

an understanding of how HTTP functions and identify common HTTP methods and 

outline how HTMl, CSS and Javascript interact with one another. 

To generate web pages, differentiate between a web page, website and 

web app, identify the front end and back end of a web app and 

list common web browser developer tools. 

And finally, you should be able to demonstrate an understanding of 

libraries and frameworks along with their advantages and disadvantages, 

identify an application programming interface or API and 

explain how its utilized in application development and explained the purpose and 

benefits of an IDE or integrated development environment. 

Now that you have completed this module, you should be able to demonstrate your 

knowledge of the basic concepts of how the web works. 

And you've also demonstrated your understanding of core Internet 

technologies. 

You've made a great start on your learning journey. 

Excellent work.