I will now show you how to handle 

several events in React using components. 

As I start, I've added a new component to the SRC folder. 

I named it Btn, 

and for now it's just an empty function 

or the default export. 

Let me simplify the app.js file as return statement. 

First, I'll delete the logo import statements 

and import the Btn component instead, 

and then remove the contents of the return statement. 

Then finally, I'll add 

the Btn JSX elements so that it can get rendered.

Play video starting at ::39 and follow transcript0:39

Back in the Btn components. 

I add a button in the return statement, the button reads, 

Click Me, press Control S 

or Command S on the Mac to 

Save and the button renders on the screen. 

Now I would like to handle a click on this button. 

I add the onclick synthetic events than 

an equals sign and opening curly brace. 

ClickHandler and a closing curly brace.

Play video starting at :1:9 and follow transcript1:09

The return statement, I distributed the code 

on several lines to increase readability. 

Now I'm setting up the click handling behavior. 

Whenever a user clicks on the button that will 

evaluate an expression named clickHandler, 

I now need to define 

this clickHandler and I'll 

set it as a function expression, 

meaning I will use the const 

variable keyword and name it clickHandler. 

Then I'll assign an arrow function to it. That's it. 

I've just set up a clickHandler that 

receives the click events that's fired from 

this button and handles it by 

outputting the word clicked in the console. 

Again, I save my changes and in the browser, 

I open the developer tools. 

Now I locate and activate 

the console tab in the developer tools, 

I'll also zoom in on the button. 

When I click the button, 

the word clicked appears in 

the console for every click event. 

Back inside the Btn.js file and VS Code, 

I select all the code in the Btn component. 

Right-click on the selection and click 

the Copy command and the contextual menu that pops up. 

Next, I use the keyboard shortcut 

of holding down the control key. 

While it's pressed down, 

press and release the K button, 

then pressing and releasing the C button, 

and finally releasing the Control key. 

Control K, C that comments out all the highlighted code, 

right under this commented code, 

I now press the Control V keyboard shortcut 

to paste in the code that I have previously copied. 

I will now show you how to handle a different event. 

Let me replace the onclick JSX event handling 

attributes with another one and 

thus handle a different event. 

For example, I can replace the onclick 

attribute with the on mouse over 

attribute and update my event handling function 

accordingly to read mouse over. 

I save my changes and wait for the app to recompile. 

This time, when I hover over the button, 

the words mouse over are showing in the console. 

This video, you've learned how to work with event 

handling JSX attributes and react.

(Required)

English

​

Help Us Translate