# 2.6_Video_React state management

context api


## 字幕
During this course, 

you've probably learned a few approaches for 

managing states between a parent's component 

and a child components. 

But have you wondered 

how well these approaches still apply for 

more complex apps with multiple levels of components? 

Fortunately, there are tools 

available to help you do just that. 

By the end of this video, 

you'll understand how context API 

can be used to manage state more efficiently 

across multiple levels of components. 

You'll also be able to perform 

basic states management using the useContext 

and a useReducer hooks found in context API. 

By this point, you're probably familiar 

with the practice of passing states 

from one component to another by using props. 

While passing props helps to manage states, 

it is like taking a bus and going 

through each stop before you get off at the end. 

In comparison, using the context API 

is like teleporting to your destination instantly. 

It's a way to bypass 

the redundant passing of data 

through multiple levels of components. 

To set it up, you need to add a piece of code 

that will be your context provider. 

It's also where the state will be stored. 

When a component needs to use the state, 

it becomes a context consumer. 

Now let's examine a simple app that 

utilizes the context API to control state. 

In my app.js file, 

I'll use some code for a star to set up. 

You can also find this file in the additional resources 

if you'd like to use it to 

practice working with context API. 

In the app components, 

I have import statements for 

meals provider and meals list. 

The meals provider provides contexts state data 

and gives it to all the components it 

wrapped inside the app components. 

Currently, it wraps two components, 

the meals list components and the counter components, 

which are between the div tags of the return statements. 

The meals provide a component to holds all the states 

which is organized with the help of the context API. 

First I set the meals contexts variable 

using the React.createContext function. 

Next, I declare the today's meals array, 

which contains several food items saved as strings. 

I then coach the meals provider as 

an ES6 function that accepts the children value. 

This value holds everything that we wrapped 

into the meals provider component 

when it gets rendered inside the app component. 

The children value is just returned 

from the meals provider, 

wraps into the MealsContexts.Provider JSX elements. 

The MealsContexts.Provider JSX elements 

comes with the value attribute. 

This value attributes gets assigned the meals object, 

which is the value I sent to 

the use of state variable earlier. 

Before exporting the meals provider component 

at the bottom of the file, 

I'm also setting the use meals list contexts 

variable to the React.useContexts core 

and passing it to the meals contexts 

as its single argument. 

This makes it easier for me to destructure 

the meals objects from 

the use meals list context variable. 

Finally, in the meals list component, 

I'm accessing the context date by importing 

the use meals list context from the meals provider file. 

Let's break down how this component works in more detail. 

First, I'm destructuring the meals property 

from the objects returned 

from the use meals list context call. 

The original object has a single property named meals, 

which holds an array of three meals strings. 

Once I destructure the meals property from that object, 

all I have left is the array of three strings 

saved in the meals variable, 

which allows me to map over the meals value 

where I'm rendering an H2 

for each member of the meals array. 

This code is probably more complex 

than most of what you have encountered. 

Don't worry if it takes time for you 

to understand how it works. 

Just remember the important parts, 

that this setup gives you 

a nice starting point for working with the context API. 

Lastly, let's examine the counter component. 

Note that it gets the context data in the same way 

that the meals list component does. 

This is the usefulness of having 

a centralized state store. 

It allows me to simply reach into 

the states provider directly from 

whatever components needed without 

having to do prop drilling or lifting upstate. 

Next, let me show you how the useReducer hook works. 

Let's move on to the useReducer hook. 

You can think of it as a superpower to use states. 

While the use state hook starts with an initial state, 

the useReducer also gets 

a reducer function in addition to the initial state. 

Let me illustrate that with a code example. 

Let's say I have a rideshare app that 

represents the amount of money in my wallet. 

The initial state is a value of 100 

and the action of picking up 

a customer increases the value 

while the action of refueling my vehicle decreases it. 

I've applied to reduce a function 

which takes in the state and the action. 

Instead of using set states like in the use state hook, 

I'll use the dispatch method of the useReducer hook, 

which accepts an object literal with 

a single property type set 

to a matching action.type whose behavior 

is defined inside the reducer function. 

Now when I interact with this app in the browser, 

I can increase the money value by clicking 

the a new customer button 

or decrease it by clicking be refilled the tank button. 

In this video, you learned how 

the useContext and useReducer hooks 

can be used to manage state more 

efficiently across multiple levels of components.

## 摘要