# hooks
## 字幕
By now you've probably already learned about some important and 

useful core concepts in React. 

At this point, you're ready to learn how to add interactivity, 

maintain state within a React component and explore hooks. 

In this video, you'll be introduced to what hooks are, how they can be used and 

why they are useful. 

As you progress as a React developer, 

you'll likely soon use complex components with state fault logic. 

Keeping track of state across components can become quite a task and 

this is where React's hooks can help. 

One key benefit of hooks is that they solve the problem of unnecessary code 

reuse across components. 

Let's find out how they do that. 

Hooks are functions that were introduced in React version 16.8. 

They let you hook into React state and lifestyle features from components. 

Let's observe an example hook. 

Specifically, you'll examine an instance of the useState hook as 

it's the most commonly used one. 

This hook is used to manage the state within a component and 

keep track of it and it's built directly into React. 

To use it, the first thing you need to do is import the useState from React so 

that it's available for use. 

The next step is to declare a state variable within a component. 

You can provide any name to the state variable and the set state function. 

For this example, let's call the state variable showMenu and 

the set state function setShowMenu. 

If you've learned JavaScripts, this syntax may feel somewhat familiar to you. 

You are probably wondering what exactly this code does. 

Well, it's actually doing something that you've likely encountered before. 

Notice that the convention is to name the state variable and 

the set of function using array destructuring. 

When you declare a state variable using the useState, 

it returns a pair which is an array with two items. 

Without array destructuring, the code would be long and cumbersome. 

Since it's more confusing and tedious to access the array items by index, 

array destructuring is preferred and it significantly simplifies the code. 

You now have a new state variable called showMenu. 

The useState then sets the initial value of showMenu as false. 

So to summarize calling the useState hook does two things. 

It creates a state variable with an initial value that represents the current 

state, which in this example is showMenu. 

And it creates a function to set that states variable value, 

which in this case is setShowMenu. 

The function setShowMenu is used to update the value of show menu bypassing 

the Boolean value to it. 

It does not matter what names you use for the state variables. 

You can define them based on your component and use case. 

The useState hook should be called at the top level of your component. 

In this example, 

notice that the useState hook was used to track the Boolean state value. 

You can use the useState hook to track any type of data. 

It could be strings, numbers, arrays, Booleans or objects. 

For instance, you can even track the number of times a button is pressed. 

In addition to the hooks that come out of the box with React, 

you can also build your own hooks, 

which will let you extract custom component logic into reusable functions. 

This is an excellent feature and benefit of using hooks. 

The biggest benefit of hooks is the readability and 

simplicity that they provide to the code. 

In this video, you learned the basics on React hooks and 

explored the useUtate hook. 

You now understand the benefits of using hooks and 

how you can use them within your React applications.

## 摘要
## 什么是 hooks

hooks is functions that let you hook into React state and lifecycle features from components 

- creates a state varibable with an initival value
- create a function to set that state variable's value

## hooks

- useState
- useRef
- useContext，
- useMemo

