## 字幕

Why do we use state in React? 

Because it's one way to deal with data in our React apps. 

State is a powerful tool in Reacts that developers 

use to manage data that is 

likely to change in an application. 

Recall that the state data is 

internal to the component itself. 

This allows the components to 

re-render based on the changes in 

the states data and 

present the newest updates to the user. 

With that in mind, 

let's explore how you can update two components with 

the useState Hook that you encountered earlier. 

The useState Hook allows 

a components to define and track state. 

It does this with two arguments. 

The first of which accesses state and 

the second of which updates it with a function. 

For example, you can use the date 

variable to access the date state. 

Then use the set date function to update the state. 

To help you understand how useful 

we use useState Hook can be, 

you're now going to explore 

an example that demonstrates how 

to use it to observe and 

manipulate the state of the component. 

In this example app, 

I have a heading, child components. 

It receives the props and the object, 

and it also accesses the message property before it 

returns it and renders it as an H1 element. 

In the parent's app.js component, 

I import the heading component, 

and I set the word as a state variable, 

set to the string of Eat. 

For now, I ignore the comments after the Eat string. 

In the return statement, 

I wrap the heading components in a single div. 

I pass the message prop of word plus, 

and then "at Little Lemon", 

all wrapped in an opening and closing curly brace. 

You already know that's an opening and 

a closing curly brace signifies a JSX expression, 

which means that all the code inside of 

those curly braces will be 

evaluated as regular JavaScript. 

The JavaScript engine takes 

the word Eat and concatenates it, 

so the words at Little Lemon. 

Thus, in the browser window, 

I get the words eat at little lemon. 

If I want to update the value of the word 

States variable to something else like drink, 

I could use the set word 

function directly to help me achieve this. 

However, when I save the change and run my code, 

the app does not work. 

This is because one can't use 

the state's setting variable from your state directly. 

Instead of updating it directly, 

I can update it based on a click event. 

I have another element called button 

and onClick is equal to handleClick. 

I now set another function which I'll name handledClick. 

Inside the handleClick function definition, 

I run set word to drink. 

I click "File, Save All", 

and wait for the apps to compile. 

Now when I click the Click Here button, 

I get to drink at the little lemon. 

To observe and update state, 

you can use the state's setting functions and 

state variables using the state hook. 

But you must make sure that you 

use event handling attributes in 

JSX syntax or some other approaches 

which we'll learn more about later. 

In this video, you've learned about 

state change basics in React, 

including how to apply the use of state syntax, 

observe and manipulate state and components. Well done.
## 摘要