At this stage, you might be familiar with the concept of 

testing your code to 

make sure it's working as you intend it. 

You might also have come across 

some syntax of testing frameworks. 

But what about a language like 

JavaScript that has no built-in testing functionality? 

For JavaScript, you can use testing frameworks like Jest. 

Over the next few minutes, 

I am going to introduce you to 

the features of the Jest framework, 

code coverage, mocking, and snapshot testing. 

It is quite a mouthful. Let's get started. 

JavaScript doesn't have built-in objects or 

methods that would allow for tests to be written. 

Therefore, many different libraries 

have been built to tackle the issue of testing. 

Some examples of these libraries include Jasmine, 

Mocha, Karma, and qUnit. 

Then there is the one that you will cover now, 

namely the Jest testing framework. 

Jest is a JavaScript testing framework. 

It's often used for testing code like React, 

a JavaScript library maintained by Meta and 

a community of individual developers and companies. 

Besides plain JavaScript and 

React code just allows you to test Babel, 

TypeScript, Node, Angular, 

Vue, and various other frameworks. 

Jest also supports code coverage. 

Code coverage is a measure of 

what percentage of my code is covered by tests. 

If I say that I have an 80 percent code coverage, 

that means that only one-fifth of 

my entire code base is not covered by tests. 

But even 100 percent code coverage doesn't 

mean that you have tested 

for every conceivable expectation. 

It just means that there are 

some expectations tested for each line of my code. 

Still, code coverage is a handy tool to 

gauge the amount of 

my code base that's included in tests. 

The higher the code coverage, 

the lower the chance of having unidentified bugs. 

As a rule, the higher the percentage of code coverage, 

the lower the amount of time required to write new tests. 

This, however, depends on whether 

there are incomplete software requirements 

pending or if you are going to 

receive more requirements in the future. 

Next, let's cover the concept of mocking. 

Mocking allows you to separate the code 

that you are testing from it's related dependencies. 

In other words, you can use the mocking features 

to make sure that your unit testing is stand-alone. 

For example, you can test 

the front end functionality of your web app by 

mocking the data as if it came back from 

a server when in fact it came from the client. 

Mocking is especially helpful because very 

often web applications are built by teams of developers. 

Some developers work on the backend of 

a feature and others work on the front end. 

This could result in bottlenecks. 

Take an example where the team 

decides to build a new feature that 

lists the address book of 

users of the app on the front end. 

The actual user related data 

for this feature would come from the server. 

But what if a back-end developer was a 

bit late in developing their part of the feature? 

Then a front end developer would be stuck waiting for 

the back-end developer to complete 

their work before the front-end code can be built. 

With mocking you can avoid this bottleneck. 

Mocks, allow you to 

pretend that the users are already there. 

The needed data comes from the 

mock rather than from the backend. 

This allows the front-end developers to 

finish their site of the new feature independently. 

In certain cases, developers can 

use mocking to ship features faster. 

Some libraries, such as sign-on, 

focus specifically on mocking. 

But the great thing about Jest is that you use it's 

mock functions without any additional installations. 

In Jest you use mocking by employing Jest mock functions. 

It's also easy to test asynchronous code in Jest. 

There are no difficult setups and tests are 

relatively easy to code 

even for newcomers to the framework. 

Finally, Jest allows you to perform snapshot testing. 

Snapshot testing is used 

by developers to verify that there are 

no regressions in the DOM of our apps 

after some changes to the code base are made. 

You're now familiar with the concept of testing 

your JavaScript code using 

the Jest testing framework. Great work.