## 字幕
As a developer working in a team, 

you are continually writing, 

changing, or updating existing source code. 

It may happen that while you 

were working on a new feature, 

another developer in the team is 

busy fixing an unrelated bug. 

With multiple developers all 

working in the same code base, 

keeping track of all of 

those additional updates can be problematic. 

Luckily, version control 

addresses these kinds of problems. 

In this video, you will discover 

the different types of version control systems, 

learn how they operate, 

and learn about their similarities and differences. 

There are many different 

version control systems available. 

For example, Subversion, Perforce, 

AWS Code Commit, 

Mercurial, and Git to name a few. 

Version control systems can be 

split into two types or categories. 

Centralized version control systems 

and distributed version control systems. 

Both types are quite similar, 

but they also have some key differences 

which set them apart from each other. 

Let's start with centralized version control systems. 

Centralized version control systems, 

or CVCS for short, 

contain a server and a client. 

The server contains the main repository that 

houses the full history of versions of the code base. 

Developers working on projects using 

a centralized system need to pull 

down the code from the server to their local machine. 

This gives the user 

their own working copy of the code base. 

The server holds the full history of changes. 

The client has the latest code, 

but every operation needs to have 

a connection to the server itself. 

In a centralized version control system, 

the server is the central copy of the project. 

After making changes to the code, 

the developer needs to push the changes to 

the central server so that other developers can see them. 

This essentially means that viewing 

the history of changes requires that 

you are connected to the server 

in order to retrieve and view them. 

Now, let's discover 

how distributed version control systems work. 

Distributed version control systems or DVCS for short, 

are similar to the centralized model. 

You still need to pull code down 

from the server to view the latest changes. 

The key difference is that every user 

is essentially a server and not a client. 

This means that every time you pull 

down code from the distributed model, 

you have the entire history of 

changes on your local system. 

Now that you know a little about CVCS, 

and DVCS, let's explore 

some of the advantages and disadvantages of each. 

The advantage of CVCS is that they are 

considered easier to learn 

than their distributed counterparts. 

They also give more access controls to users. 

The disadvantage is that they 

can be slower given that you need 

to establish a connection to 

the server to perform any actions. 

With DVCS, you don't need to be connected to 

the server to add your changes or view a file's history. 

It works as if you are actually connected to the server 

directly but on your own local machine. 

You only ever need to connect to the server to pull 

down the latest changes or to push your own changes. 

It essentially allows users to work in an offline state. 

Speed and performance are also 

better than its CVCS counterpart. 

DVCS is a key factor in improving 

developer operations and 

the software development life cycle. 

You will learn more about DVCS later in this course. 

There you have it. You can now differentiate 

between a centralized and a 

distributed version control system. 

You also learned how they 

operate and what their benefits are. 

As an aspiring developer, 

I'm sure you can appreciate the importance of 

version control systems. Well done.

## 摘要