
So what is the difference between a stack and a queue? 

And what does it mean to use one of these data structures over another? 

Well, in this video, you will learn about stacks and queues. 

The difference between the two and why you might 

choose to use one over another depending on the requirements of the solution. 

Stacks and queues are abstract data structures that have many different 

implementations depending on the programming language. 

The unique principles that are common to both are how elements are added and 

removed.


While lists and arrays allow for random access, 

stacks and queues employ sequential access.

Play video starting at ::42 and follow transcript0:42

This limited approach to holding data can be very useful when you want to control 

how the data is accessed. 

Let's start by exploring stacks in a little more detail. 

Stacks are linear data structures with strict ways of adding and removing items. 

As the name suggests, 

a stack is a collection of elements that are stacked on top of one another. 

What this means is that it is impossible to pull items from the middle. 

Instead, a stack works with a strict First-In, Last-Out, or FILO basis. 

This can also be phrased as Last-In, First-Out, or LIFO. 

It's a simple yet powerful concept that informs you that items can 

only be retrieved from the top of the stack, 

which determines the order in which you can retrieve them. 

An example of this principle in action is hitting Ctrl+Z in a URL, 

Word document, or any coding environment. 

Ctrl+Z undoes the very last action. 

Hitting it again will undo the previous action and so forth. 

To extend the analogy Ctrl+Y will redo the action or 

push it by adding it back to the stack. 

Stacks tend to have very few methods, Push, Pop, isEmpty, isFull, and Peek. 

The functions of these methods correlate with their names, 

push will add an item to the stack and pop will remove. 

isEmpty, checks that the stack contains nothing. 

And isFull is a boolean that will return true if there 

is no more room in the stack. 

You might have heard of the popular computer question and 

answer platform named after this very issue, namely, stack overflow. 

So popping an item, takes it from the top of the stack and 

calling Pop again will return the next item in the stack. 

Pop can be called until there is nothing left in the stack. 

Push then will place an item on the top of the stack. 

It is worth noting that by calling pop or push, you are changing the stack. 

You have now learned about all the methods except peek. 

So what does that entail? 

To have a look at the contents, one would call peek, 

which allows you to view the top item without removing it from the stack. 

So calling it, will not change the state of the structure unlike pop or 

push, which permanently alters the stack. 

Some implementations will include a search feature for looking through the stack, 

though this won't always be the case. 

Now, let's explore an example. 

Imagine that an application generated a deck of cards, 

you could create a stack of 52 playing cards and each time a card is dealt, 

it is removed from the top of the stack, just as in a real deck. 

Using a stack in this way, would simplify the code required for 

maintaining the state of the deck. 

Now, let's explore queues. 

A queue is very similar to a stack in that it tends to have the same methods. 

It can create, insert, remove and check the state of the queue. 

Unlike a stack, a queue works on a First-In, First-Out or FIFP basis. 

Again, the name is a good indicator of how the structure works. 

As an example, 

imagine you have a line of people waiting to get a burger at a fast food restaurant. 

The first person to enter the queue get served and 

each subsequent customer stands behind the one in front and is processed in turn. 

As with the stack, a queue will pop the selected item from the structure though 

different languages have different implementations for this. 

The element that is removed from the queue, is the one at the bottom. 

In other words, the least recently added item or the first to join the queue. 

Using a real world IT example, 

a server balancing system usually uses a queue to retrieve tasks. 

The structure would hold each task in order of insertion. 

And when a server becomes available to process the task, the first task 

entered into the queue would be removed and passed to that server.



In this video, you have learned about stacks and queues and 

the differences between them. 

These are very useful tools to have in your programming toolkit and knowing them, 

will be an advantage when dealing with problems requiring 

a structured way of accessing and inserting data.
