# 2.1_Querying a table booking API

In this lesson, you'll need to use an API to send the reservation data when your app's user makes a table reservation on the Little Lemon website.

To be able to do that **properly**, you'll need to revisit some foundational **concepts**.

To begin with, you'll need to revisit the topic of **asynchronous operations** in JavaScript.

Obviously, this is a topic outside of React itself because React was built to work with JavaScript.

This means that you must at least be familiar with the **essential JavaScript concepts of synchronicity and asynchronicity**(**同步性和异步性的基本 JavaScript 概念**).

For example, you need to understand the general principle of how JavaScript, which is synchronous and single threaded, deals with asynchronous operations.
例如，您需要了解同步且单线程的 JavaScript 如何处理异步操作的一般原理。

The shortest answer is that it doesn't really deal with it at all.

It just uses other built-in browser functionalities to delegate work to them and then accepts the results of that work.

Those functionalities are known as **browser APIs**, they're also sometimes referred to as web APIs.

These are, of course, not to be confused with third party APIs that you can connect to to fetch some data from the web.

But differently, to be able to successfully complete this lesson's tasks, you need to know **how to deal with requests for third party data in plain JavaScript before you can implement this functionality in React**.
但不同的是，为了能够成功完成本课程的任务，您需要知道如何在纯 JavaScript 中处理对第三方数据的请求，然后才能在 React 中实现此功能。

### useEffect hook

Luckily, it's mostly the same mechanism with the addition of React's insisting on dealing with side effects using a dedicated hook, namely the useEffect hook.幸运的是，除了 React 坚持使用专用钩子（即 useEffect 钩子）处理副作用之外，它的机制基本相同。

There are several ways to make requests for third party JSON data in JavaScript, but one of the more popular ones is using the fetch method, which is a built-in JavaScript facade function.

### fetch method

The fetch method uses the XHR API or XML HTTP request API.

It's a piece of functionality that comes built-in to the browser, but it's not a part of the browser's JavaScript engine.

That's why we say that the fetch method is a **facade function**（门面功能）.

**When you invoke the fetch method, it returns a promise.**

This means that you also need to understand, at least at a surface level, how promises work in JavaScript, and by extension, React as well.

#### promise

A promise is an object that might get fulfilled at a later time.

Actually, every promise in JavaScript can exist in three states: **pending, fulfilled, and rejected**.

If a promise is fulfilled, then the JavaScript engine is free to execute all the methods that were given to it as done function calls, which are chained to the original fetch call.
如果承诺得到履行，则 JavaScript 引擎可以自由执行作为完成函数调用提供给它的所有方法，这些方法链接到原始的 fetch 调用。

Once the JSON data has been thus received, you can update the local component's state with that JSON data.

Because invoking the fetch method constitutes a side effect, meaning something outside of React, fetching this data requires the use of the useEffect hook.

To update the state, you can use either that **useState hook or the useReducer hook.**

Why does React insist on using the useEffect hook in the case of fetching some third party JSON data? You'll also need to be able to submit your data to the API.

Just like you did in the previous lessons of this course, you'll be given exercises where the objective will be to complete API unit tests.

Finally, as usual, you'll also need to track your newest updates using Git.

There are quite a few tasks to complete in this lesson, so let's get started.


## 摘要
-----------------------

This means that you must at least be familiar with the **essential JavaScript concepts of synchronicity and asynchronicity**(**同步性和异步性的基本 JavaScript 概念**).

For example, you need to understand the general principle of how JavaScript, which is synchronous and single threaded, deals with asynchronous operations.
例如，您需要了解同步且单线程的 JavaScript 如何处理异步操作的一般原理。

api调用，一般的技术策略

1. 用异步方法（fetach） 去获取api返回数据
2. 用**useState hook or the useReducer hook.**等待借口返回数据，一般返回，就update state,刷新页面