## 字幕

I'd like you to think back 

to a time when you thought you'd 

lost work because it had been overwritten or deleted. 

As you have previously learned, 

version control and version control systems 

help developers keep track of 

their code and are up-to-date with any changes. 

In this video, you'll get a feel for how developers use 

version control to keep track of 

changes and resolve coding conflicts. 

When working with a team of developers, 

it's essential for the codebase to have a source 

of truth that has all historical changes. 

Version control systems play 

an integral part in aiding this process by 

providing a full history of changes of 

every single file added to its repository. 

It makes collaboration across a team easier. 

Also aids in working toward a common goal. 

Whether it is adding new features and 

following the flow of how they were implemented, 

or discovering where a potential issue 

may have been introduced. 

Being able to accurately pinpoint the who, 

the when, and the what of those changes is paramount. 

The revision history will record 

the essential data points so any developer or 

team member can walk through 

the entire project from start to its current state. 

Every change that has occurred on 

the project should be easily accessible 

either by a simple command or 

integration into the developer's IDE. 

It's important for organizations to define 

standards for how developers 

communicate changes they make. 

Developers need to know prior to looking at the code, 

what the lead developers' aims are. 

The more information the better. 

This creates a stronger team environment 

that is more transparent and open. 

Now, I will guide you through an example of 

a typical development team 

working on an e-commerce application. 

Suppose you're working in a team with 

three other developers to release a new feature, 

you've been tasked with creating 

a new feature to enable experiments on the website. 

This will allow the marketing department 

to test user behavior. 

A daily report is generated that 

ranks the effectiveness of each experiment. 

The reports will give insights 

into how each experiment is doing. 

They will then provide the results of which 

experiment is the most successful and overall winner. 

After commit, the developer will push their changes to 

the repository and create 

something called a pull request. 

Developers will then peer review 

the poll request to approve request changes or decline. 

When working on a single project, 

there's usually some level of 

crossover between the developers. 

When this does occur, 

the history of revisions can help aid 

the developers in seeing 

the full life cycle of changes that have occurred. 

It is also essential for merging 

conflicts where multiple developers have 

made changes that may need to be 

resolved prior to the code being approved. 

The history will show who made the change, 

for what reason, 

the code itself and its changes, 

and the date and time of when they occurred. 

Typically on a new project, 

you will encounter changes in one task that 

may cause potential issues or conflicts with another. 

The history of revisions will give the 

team the ability to manage and merge 

these changes and deliver the business objectives in 

a timely manner. Well done. 

You've now learned about the history of revisions. 

Remember, it's vital to have a system in place 

to keep a record of all changes to the codebase. 

This is critical when working 

with a team of other developers. 

You should now be able to describe how developers use 

version control to fix 

any conflicts that may occur during production.
## 摘要