
In this course, you discovered how 

to program with JavaScript. 

Let's take a few minutes to recap what you learned. 

In the opening module, 

you discovered real-world applications of 

JavaScript and uncovered possible job opportunities. 

You also learned how to install 

VS code on Windows so that you could code in JS. 

You did learned about the importance of JavaScript in 

programming and the different libraries 

used by JavaScript developers. 

As you progress through the lesson, 

you encountered key concepts in JavaScript. 

By engaging with these concepts you 

discovered how to identify and declare variables, 

differentiate between data types, 

and recognize math and logical operators. 

You also learned how to perform basic arithmetic using 

the number data type and utilize strings and Booleans. 

In the next lesson, 

you explored conditionals and loops. 

During your exploration of these concepts, 

you learned how to script different forms of JavaScript 

conditional statements and work 

with different types of loops, 

such as for, 

while, and nested. 

In Module 2 you 

explored the building blocks of a program. 

You began this module with a lesson 

on arrays, objects, and functions. 

During this lesson you learned how to explain 

the purpose of functions and describe their benefits, 

outline the process for building 

an array and accessing its contents, 

and you now understand 

the array characteristics and 

concatenation operators of strings, 

and you can now also build and call functions, 

create custom objects, 

explain how math objects work, 

and interact with arrays and objects. 

You then moved onto the next lesson in which 

you explored the concept of error prevention. 

During this lesson, you discovered how to 

recognize the differences between bugs and errors, 

demonstrate try-catch blocks, 

and explain the concepts of undefined, 

null and empty string values. 

The next module on programming paradigms 

began with the lesson on functional programming, 

in which you learned how to 

explain how the functional paradigm works, 

outline the concept of recursion, 

describe how scope operates, 

and explain different forms of scope 

such as let, const, and var. 

In the next lesson, 

you explored object oriented programming and 

learned the principles of object oriented programming, 

how to deploy classes in JavaScript, 

build and utilize constructors, 

and make use of inheritance. 

You then explored advanced JavaScript features 

in which you learned how to destruct arrays and objects, 

utilized for-of loops and objects, 

explain the concepts of 

template literals and data structures, 

and demonstrate the use of the spread and rest operators. 

Finally, you then explored how 

JavaScript operates in the browser. 

During this lesson, you learned how to 

manipulate JavaScript in the DOM, 

make use of JavaScript interactivity in the browser, 

work with events, 

and capture and move data around the web. 

In the next module, 

you looked at testing and compatibility. 

The lesson began with an introduction 

to testing in which you learned about 

the concept of testing and how 

to practice different types of testing, 

how to write a unit test, 

the process for writing tests with Jest, 

and how to apply test-driven development. 

You then reviewed JavaScript 

testing challenges in which you learned 

how to navigate other JS environments like Node and NPM, 

the concepts of webpack and transpiring, 

the process for working with 

arrow functions and classes in React, 

and you discovered the role 

the DOM plays in testing challenges, 

and finally, you discovered how to write tests with Jest. 

Well done on completing this recap. 

Now it's time to try out what you've 

learned in the graded assessment. Good luck.