# Navigation best practices

Now that you've identified the navigation issues with the Little Lemon website, let's explore best practices you can use in the redesign.

You're beginning to feel confident about your design work and each time you iterate and test you get valuable feedback.

And even though it's repetitive, it's helping Adrian achieve his business and user goals.

You're also starting the field that you're improving each time you iterate.每次迭代时，您也开始了正在改进的领域。


Some of Tillie's feedback like I have no idea where I am, got you thinking that this has to do with content and how it is organized.

You really want to solve this, let's get into it.

In this video you'll learn how best to consider your content and structure with usability in mind.

You'll also learn navigation best practices regarding information architecture and content strategy.

You already learned that you must keep an open dialogue with your users.

In the field of UX design, there are several ways to achieve this.

There are two broad methods you can consider to make your users feel comfortable and know where they are at all times.

- The first one is content strategy, 
- and the second one is information architecture.

It's worth noting that these methodologies are deep and rich.
值得注意的是，这些方法论是深刻而丰富的。

And in this course you will cover an introduction and apply some of the key principles.

Which you should explore the information in the additional resources readings to gain a greater understanding of these concepts.

Content strategy involves presenting the content on your website in a meaningful way that will promote your products.

And it helps to align your client's business and UX goals.

It also assists in aligning your content around your personas and scenarios.
内容策略涉及以有意义的方式在您的网站上展示内容，以宣传您的产品。
它有助于协调客户的业务和用户体验目标。
它还有助于根据您的角色和场景调整您的内容。

A broad rule of thumb is to think about structuring your content under the headings of prioritization, which is how you determine your content and its relevance to your users.

## Next is organization.

This is the framework for grouping labeling and other related content so that users can find what matters to them.

Then, presentation is how pieces of content are assembled to form what a user sees.

The final one is specifications, which is the content requirements for each content piece.

Information architecture can be used to find out what you need to know to design good navigation.

The information for larger websites may need to be structured and indexed in a certain way to support good navigation.

But in this case a simple card sorting task will help you.

In the card sorting exercise, you write all of the individual elements that you want to include on the site, on posted notes.

You then ask your potential users to order them into logical groups that make sense to them and group results.

This can be done on a table, or a wall to group cards within sections like menu and about.

The website navigation can be organized into five sections.

Home, About, Menu, Reservations, and Order Online.

Home is an introductory summary of the site, whereas About has some information about their produce ingredients, the brothers, grandmother's story and a link to social channels.

Menu has an up to date printable breakdown of a traditional restaurant menu.

Reservations is for table reservations and Order Online is for ordering for delivery.

This navigation bar is known as a primary navigation and will sit on top of all pages.

A hierarchy and the order of elements such as the navigation bar helps to create meaning and a sense of place in your product.

The navigation bar elements have a strong influence on the sense of place and this will be present on all pages to reinforce the site structure.

Your navigation is at the top of the Little Lemon website page, which is a familiar model.

The navigation has room to breathe and it isn't clouded with other information or graphics.

The colors should be contrasting so that the links stand out.

Your pages navigation now looks like it can be used to navigate to other pages on the website and the links are not hidden, they look like links.

If the user is on a certain page, that link will look active with a heavier weight or different color and an underline.

The logo will act as a link to the homepage.

A footer at the bottom of the page will also contain links to all individual pages and social channels.

On the mobile version, due to lack of space, you decide to use a hamburger menu.

When it is clicked or tapped, it opens a side menu which displays links to the other pages on the site.

Thanks to your comprehensive evaluation and redesign of the Little Lemon website, you are helping Adrian achieve his business and user goals.

In this video, you were introduced to information architecture, content strategy and website navigation and their role in product design, good work.