## 字幕
In life, there are rarely 

perfect solutions that suit every need. 

For instance, this concept 

applies when it comes to selecting a vehicle. 

A small car is usually more fuel 

efficient but has limited space. 

On the other hand, an SUV can handle 

many passengers but burns fuel quickly. 

Making the best choice starts with 

identifying your specific needs. 

This is no different when it comes to choosing 

stateful or stateless components in programming. 

By the end of this video, 

you'll be able to describe 

the differences between types of state and choose 

the best types to suit a given need and explain how 

the dynamic nature of React 

calls a structured decisions to influence complexity. 

The distinction between stateful and 

stateless components is that a stateful component holds 

states as internal data and 

its state changes based on 

the way that the app is built; 

often as a result of user actions. 

A stateless component however, 

doesn't store states and 

any changes must be inherited through props. 

When deciding if a component 

should be stateless or stateful, 

you can refer to the following rules. 

Use stateless components when your component 

doesn't need to maintain its own state in order to work. 

Use stateful components when your component 

does need to maintain its own state in order to work. 

This might sound like an oversimplification, 

but let's explore why this general rule is enough. 

A common approach for organizing components in 

React is to have a stateful component 

as the parent which then sends its states down to 

several stateless components that then 

receive the state and render it on the screen. 

The children components are 

stateless because they don't have 

their own state and only receive 

their parent state when passed down by using props. 

Keep in mind that you should never change the values of 

props in children components as they are immutable. 

Now that you know the basic logic, 

let's break down a specific example of 

this approach in action starting with two components; 

the app component and 

the child component which returns a message. 

In the app component, 

the useState hook defines and keeps the states that 

will be passed to the child component 

as the props object. 

The app component renders the child component and passes 

the date to it in a string format 

as a prop named message. 

One thing to keep in mind and 

something that is often overlooked by 

React beginners is that a prop 

doesn't always have to pass state. 

In addition to state, 

JavaScript values and functions 

can also be passed to the child component. 

It's still data but it's 

props data rather than state data. 

In the child component, 

there is an h1 element. 

The content of this element will be 

the message prop that is passed into the component. 

Note the props are not changed or 

updated and the components as they are immutable, 

meaning they can't be changed. 

Since the child component doesn't store any state, 

it is a stateless component. 

All of its data comes from 

the props passed into the component. 

The app component stores 

the state which can be changed through 

events and functions and 

is therefore a stateful component. 

In this video, you learned why and when to utilize 

stateful or stateless components in 

your React apps based on your specific needs. 

You also observed that although 

a stateless component can't directly pass state, 

it can still trigger actions that will 

update the state of other components.

## 摘要