## 字幕

Imagine you're working for an online retailer with 

discounts prices regularly to keep stock moving. 

Sales are announced at multiple points on the website. 

But what's the best way to 

keep this information up to date? 

For example, 

updating items individually would 

be tedious and time-consuming. 

Fortunately, it's possible to change information at 

a single point and have everything 

else update automatically to match. 

This idea illustrates a parent-child relationship, 

and in this video, we will explore 

this concept as it applies to React. 

By the end of this video, 

you'll be able to describe 

the parent-child unidirectional flow of data, 

and you'll gain an understanding 

of the hierarchy of React. 

Let's start with an example of 

two components which will be used in the same app. 

First is the promo component, 

which will return the contents of the promo 

heading components that you will create later. 

To build the promo component, 

you can declare the function promo and then write 

a return statement inside of curly braces. 

This statement has a div 

inside of which PromoHeading is called. 

This is then followed by 

the line export default Promo 

to make the component accessible. 

Next, let's write the PromoHeading component. 

You can declare function PromoHeading and in 

curly braces type return, opening, parenthesis, 

h1 tag the text 80 percent of sale, 

h1 closing tag, and closing parenthesis. 

Once again, don't forget to 

export the components to make it available. 

Success. You've now created the component promo, 

which calls a function from the component 

PromoHeading to return the text 80 percent off sale. 

In this example, 

the Promo component is known as a parent component, 

and the component it renders, 

PromoHeading, is referred to as the child component. 

Now, let's say that the discount increases to 99 percent 

off and you need to update the code to reflect this. 

One approach is to update the text inside of 

the h1 tags in the Promo details component. 

That's a quick fix because there 

is only one change to deal with. 

However, let's explore a more complex situation. 

This time, your manager asks you 

to call the PromoHeading component in 

the sidebar and footer components of 

the web app in addition to the primary component. 

They also want two messages displayed 

"99 percent of all items" and "everything must go". 

These new requirements mean that the approach of updating 

the child component will not work 

quite as well. Why is that? 

Well, it means that you now have to update 

multiple components with the same data. 

This is not in line with 

the general programming principle of 

DRY or don't repeat yourself, 

which aims to reduce needless code replication. 

Also, consider the following possibilities. 

While entering the same text into several components, 

it's possible you make a typing error. 

Also, what if your boss 

decides to change the discount again? 

It means you have to change the text in 

all the connected components once more. 

But instead of writing the same code over and over, 

you can change your approach. 

You can establish a single source of truth that 

contains the two strings that 

store the values for the texts, 

"99 percent of all items" and "everything must go". 

This will be contained within 

the parent component so that 

any data needed can be passed 

onto the child component using props. 

Now, let's use this approach to 

update the Promo component. 

First, you create a single source of truth, 

a JavaScript object named data. 

Data is an object that will contain 

two properties named heading and callToAction, 

both represented as strings. 

Next, you update 

the Promo component to pass the heading and 

the callToAction values of 

the data object to the PromoHeading component. 

This is known as passing data from 

the parent to the child component. 

Back inside the PromoHeading component, 

you update it to accept data from its parent component. 

To do this, you need to first delete 

the existing h1 in the return statement, 

and then add a new h1 for props.heading, 

and then h2 for props.callToAction. 

Now this component accepts a props object, 

specifically its two properties, 

heading and callToAction. 

The values of the props object are determined in 

the parent component when you add 

the specific JSX element that should be rendered. 

This was achieved when you rendered 

the PromoHeading inside the Promo component. 

Here you access the properties on the data object using 

the regular dots notation syntax of plain JavaScript. 

Knowing this, you can now go to the sidebar component and 

the footer component in 

a similar way to the PromoHeading component. 

Remember that in React, 

the prop states always flow from 

the parent to the child component, 

and using props helps you avoid the need 

to change the data in several places. 

Instead, you make the change at the data source, 

the parent, and the updates will be 

applied to the child automatically. 

In this video, you learned how 

the parent-child relationship can 

be set up so that data flows from parent to child. 

By storing data in the parent component, 

you can dynamically pass it to 

the child component without 

the need to update children individually.


## 2.1_Video_Parent-child data flow

重点

1. describe parent-child data flow
2. understand data hierarchy `数据层次结构`in React

数据处理方法
a centralized point of data - a "single source of truth"


```jsx
const data = {
  heading: "90% off all items",
  callToAction: "Everything must go!"
}
function Promo(){
  return(
    <div>
      <PromoHeading
        heading={data.heading}
        callToAction={data.callToAction}
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

```
function PromoHeading(props){
  return(
    <h1>{props.heading}</h1>
  )
}
export default PromoHeading;
```