## 字幕

In this video, you're going to learn 

about data flow in ReactJS. 

In this case, data flow is in one direction only. 

Immediately a question springs to mind. 

Why is one-way flow in React important? 

Let me tell you. 

This type of data flow ensures that the data is moving 

from top to bottom through the component hierarchy. 

It also ensures that 

changes are transmitted through the system. 

You'll cover this in more detail later. 

For now in this video, 

you will also learn how to showcase the use of 

stateless and stateful examples by focusing on data flow. 

Imagine that data is money 

and the money is controlled by your employer. 

This money can be considered props. 

This money props is passed to 

you and becomes your money state. 

The money props always flow from your employer to you, 

never in the opposite direction. 

In React, data is passed down from 

parent components to a child components via props. 

A child components can't mutate or change its props. 

It can only read them and re-render. 

This means that the data comes from 

the parents and it's just 

consumed in the child components. 

However, if this was always the case, 

then all you'd have in a React app is separate pieces of 

the DOM acting as component 

templates to be filled up with a data they receive. 

While this works great, 

there'd be almost no interactivity. 

You've learned about passing data to 

a child component using props. 

However, there's another way to work 

with data in React components, 

and that data is referred to as state. 

All the data in React can be 

divided into props data and states data. 

Props data is data outside the components 

that it receives and works with but cannot mutate. 

State data is data inside 

the components that it controls and can mutate. 

It also helps to think of it like this. 

The prop data are belongs to 

the parent that renders the components. 

The state data belongs to the component itself. 

To demonstrate this, let's open up 

VS Code and work through an example. 

I've built a new app using Create React app. 

I have two files created, app.js and child.js. 

The app.js file defines 

the app components using 

a class definition instead of a function. 

When it's created, it 

initializes its state with the current date. 

The render function then 

renders a component called child. 

The child's components has a prop named 

message defined and its value is 

set as the current dates from 

the component's state converted to a string format, 

which includes the hours, 

minutes, and seconds of the date. 

In the child.js file, 

the component renders the message prop in an H1 elements. 

Now when I run the app, 

the state of the app component flows. 

It stays down to the child component props, 

and the H1 elements will 

display the current date and time. 

Well done. You've now learned how 

children and data flows in ReactJS. 

You should also be able to showcase the use of 

stateless and stateful examples by focusing on data flow.
## 摘要
 In React, data is passed down from parent components to a child components via props. A child components can't mutate or change its props. It can only read them and re-render. 
优点,简单
缺点,缺乏交互性


 component's state

 state 在 componnet 里面
 可以改变 