## 字幕



Consider the different modes in 

an alarm clock and the situations you would use them in. 

Typically, you have alarm 

on for setting a time to wake up, 

alarm off when this feature is not needed, and 

snooze for sneaking in a few extra minutes of sleep. 

Setting these modes doesn't require 

adding anything extra to your clock. 

They are built-in features 

that can be set with the push of a button. 

If you create this feature in a React app, 

you could create a component named clock 

and then parsing the status values via props. 

Recall the props is a feature of React that essentially 

allows you to hold information 

about the UI in the browser. 

In React, you also have another way to do 

this by using a similar concept called States, 

which also allows you to easily change how 

the component behaves in order to suit a given need. 

By the end of this video, 

you'll be able to describe what State is in React and why 

developers use it to control what is 

displayed in the browser from a component. 

It helps to think of State as 

a component's internal data that 

determines the current behavior of a component. 

It's often used to store data 

that affects the behavior of a component. 

States is important because it 

allows components to stay in 

sync with each other and ensure 

that your app behaves as intended, 

for example, if one component updates its State, 

all other components that depend on that 

State will automatically update too. 

This means that a component sends 

its State to its children by using props. 

If the child components have 

their own grandchild components, 

then the child components might have some States 

that they send us props to those grandchild components. 

In React, State is kept in a state of variables. 

The main way to change State is to alter these variables. 

When a component is created, 

it gets an initial State. 

The State is used to initialize 

the component's properties. 

Components can be either stateful or stateless, 

but what exactly does that mean? 

To gain a better understanding, 

let's explore an example of each. 

First is an app component with no state defined. 

It performs a single action, 

which is to render the text 

a stateless component and 

then you have a stateful function component. 

This component also renders some texts, 

but it references a variable to do so. 

We'll explore how that works a little later. 

For now, notice the syntax 

using the first line of the app's function body. 

If you're familiar with how array destructuring works 

in plain JavaScript. 

This line of code might've already make sense to you, 

but to make things clear, 

consider an example array called fruits, 

which contains the three strings, 

apple, pear, and plum. 

With its ES6 version, 

JavaScript introduced the concept 

of array destructuring, 

which allows you to assign several variables 

from the array using a single line of code. 

In other words, you can assign apple, pear, 

and plum to the fruit 1, 

fruit 2 and fruit 

3 variables quickly instead of one at a time. 

With this in mind, let's come back 

to that line in the stateful component. 

Notice that the syntax used is similar to 

the array destructuring example you just 

examined but with an interesting bit of code. 

React.useState. 

Hooks allow developers to hook into 

some otherwise inaccessible functionality. 

For example, to access 

the State object you would use the useState hook. 

To better understand what is being 

destructured in the app component, 

let's call a console log to the useState hook. 

The output reveals an array holding two things, 

the string Hello and a function. 

In this case, Hello is 

the state value assigned to the word state variable. 

The function is a built-in one that is not declared. 

The function can be destructured 

with any name you'd like, 

but there is a convention to follow. 

If you set the States variable name to be Greet, then 

the destructured state function should be setGreet. 

This is because the second destructured variable is 

a function that will be used to 

update the state of a variable. 

Let's examine an updated version 

of this stateful function component. 

Notice that the setGreet variable is not actually run, 

that is something that is done elsewhere. 

Later in this course, you'll 

learn about how you can extend 

this code with a clickable button to update the State. 

In this video, you learned about State in React, 

specifically the characteristics of 

stateful and stateless components in an app.


## 摘要
