# 2.5_Video_Managing state
## 字幕
As for React applications grow in complexity, 

so too can the complexity of 

managing state across components. 

As a result, developers need 

a way to manage state in their application. 

In this video, you'll learn 

how to describe the concept of 

managing state and explore some of 

the solutions to managing state in React applications. 

To illustrate a scenario in 

which states needs to be managed, 

consider a small React app that helps promote 

a healthier lifestyle by 

allowing the user to monitor their food intake. 

This app tracts a daily meal plan and the user 

can click on each individual meal as they've consumed it. 

The app then updates to show 

how many meals that are still 

left to be consumed for the day. 

The app consists of three components. 

A root components called App.js, 

and then two child components, mealsList and counter. 

Let's explore each component in a little more detail. 

First, the app component imports 

the mealsList and Counter 

components and renders them on the screen. 

Next, the mealsList component uses use 

state to hook to list days meals 

which are stored in an array. 

The array elements are saved 

inside the todaysMeals variable. 

Then the meals state variable is 

initialized to hold this value. 

In other words, the meals state variable holds the array. 

Finally, the counter component tracks 

the number of meals that a user is allowed to eat today. 

While this coding components structure may look good, 

there is a bit of a problem. 

The counter component needs to get 

state information from the mealsList components, 

but both components are rendered by the app component. 

In other words, the mealsList and 

the counter components are siblings 

and not in a parent-child relationship. 

This brings up a question. 

How can you pass the state information 

from the mealsList component to 

the counter component as 

the counter component is not 

a child of the mealsList component? 

Let's explore a possible solution. 

First, you can simplify the mealsList component 

by extracting the returned value 

into its own components, 

then you can work with the separate components 

to display different meal items. 

Let's call this new component mealsIitem. 

To do this, you can use 

the practice known as lifting state up. 

This means that you move the state from 

mealsList up to the app components, 

then you can pass stage three props using 

the mealsList components as 

a bridge to the mealItem component. 

Then you just have to count 

the data available in the counter components. 

However, this approach relies on two practices, 

lifting state up and prop drilling. 

To understand the issues this can cause, 

let's recall the current relationship 

between your app components. 

The state has now moved up to 

the app component and my mealsList component becomes 

a conduits for the state data to be passed to 

its destination, the mealItem component. 

The question you must now ask is, 

what is wrong with prop drilling? 

Prop drilling is a commonly used term 

to describe having to 

pass Stage 3 props in several layers of components, 

from the parent to the child, 

to the grandchild, and so on. 

Note that if the source data changes, 

you will have to transfer those changes 

across the entire prop drilled structure. 

This complicates things because state updates 

go to all the child components and their siblings, 

which then needs to be updated to 

reflect this states change. 

Additionally, the problem gets 

bigger as the app grows and you'll 

potentially have a huge amount of 

state being kept in the app component. 

Keep in mind that most of that state is not 

really supposed to be in the app component. 

That is because that state is about 

components such as the mealItem component. 

There's another way to phrase 

this problem through the viewpoint of global state. 

Whenever I have states that might have to 

be used in various places in my app, 

that's a global state issue. 

An elegant solution for this issue is Reacts Context API. 

One way to think about the context API 

is that it cuts out the middleman. 

There's no need for prop drilling and lifting state up. 

Instead, the component that needs 

the data simply gets it from the context API. 

The way that this is achieved is by extracting the state 

into a separate file that holds the state in context, 

then, any file that needs it 

simply imports it and uses it. 

Great job. You should now have 

a great understanding of managing states in React.

## 摘要

管理状态是指,在不同 components 之间相互共享 state 数据!
有两种方式!

1. 在父子 components 之间传递 数据, 称之为 Prop drilling
2. 使用 global state 全局状态

