Many functions, by default, return the value of undefined.
An example is the console.log() function.
If I run:
```js
console.log('Hello');

```

... here's the output in the console:
```js
undefined
```

Because the console.log() function is built so as to not have the explicitly set return value, 
it gets the default return value of undefined.

I'll now code my own implementation of console.log(), which doesn't return the value of undefined:

```js
function consoleLog(val) {

console.log(val)

return val

}
```

I'm using the console.log() function inside my custom consoleLog function declaration. And I'm specifying it to return the value of its argument.

Now when I run my custom consoleLog() function:

```js
consoleLog('Hello')
```


I get the following output:

```
Hello

'Hello'
```



So, the value is output in the console, but it's also returned.

**Why is this useful?**

It's useful because I can use return values from one function inside another function.
它很有用，因为我可以在另一个函数内使用一个函数的返回值。

Here's an example.

I'll first code a function that returns a double of a number that it received:
```js
function doubleIt(num) {

return num * 2

}
```

Now I'll code another function that builds an object with a specific value:
```js
function objectMaker(val) {

    return {

        prop: val

    }

}
```


I can call the objectMaker() function with any value I like, such as:


```js
objectMaker(20);

```

The returned value will be an object with a single prop key set to 20:

```js
{prop:20}
```


Now consider this code:

```js
doubleIt(10).toString()

```

The above code returns the number 20 as a string, that is: "20".

I can even combine my custom function calls as follows:
```js
objectMaker( doubleIt(100) );
```


This will now return the following value:
```js
{prop: 200}
```


What does all of this mean?

It means that by JavaScript allowing me to use the return keyword as described above, I can have multiple function calls, returning data and manipulating values, based on whatever coding challenge I have in front of me.
这意味着，通过 JavaScript 允许我使用如上所述的 return 关键字，我可以根据我面临的任何编码挑战进行多个函数调用、返回数据和操作值。

Being able to return custom values is one of the foundations that makes functional programming possible.
能够返回自定义值是使函数式编程成为可能的基础之一。