When you're building something, 

you want to make sure it works, 

and you make sure that something works by testing it. 

It's the same with JavaScript code. 

You need to make sure that 

your JavaScript code works before you launch it. 

In this video, I'll show you how 

web developers test their JavaScript code. 

By the end of this video, 

you'll be able to: identify 

the various reasons why 

a developer would want to test their code, 

explain how the red green refactor cycle 

relates to testing, 

differentiate between manual and automated testing, 

and demonstrate an understanding of unit testing. 

How do web developers test their code? 

Let's find out by coding a custom concatStrings function. 

For example, I can create 

a concatStrings function to 

join any two strings that I give it. 

In this case, I want the function to join string 

A and string B that are received as arguments, 

and return the result. 

For example, I could write concatStrings a, b, c, 

and then d, e, f, 

and the returned result would be abcdef. 

When the function receives number 1 and 2, 

it returns a three as a number instead of 

a string of one and two together i.e, 1, 2. 

I can also signal what I want 

my function to do by adding comments to it. 

Adding comments will help my team understand and 

remember the expected behavior 

that I had for the function. 

A more detailed description 

would be a good way to make it 

more obvious as to what 

my intention is for each argument. 

In the comments, I can even specify 

the expected behavior when 

specific values are given to the function. 

Adding comments is a step in the right direction, 

but it has downsides. 

It allows me to write anything I like, 

so there are no limits on ambiguity. 

Also, the common doesn't need 

to follow any set structure. 

There are many custom testing frameworks 

available in JavaScript. 

One of the strengths of such frameworks is that I don't 

have to use comments to describe my expectations. 

The test syntax itself becomes expectation documenting. 

When I write tests, 

those tests are a better alternative to comments in 

my source code because they specify what 

expectations my source code is trying to satisfy. 

Tests are also callable, 

meaning I can execute 

tests to check if expectations are met. 

As I demonstrated earlier, 

I could execute the concatStrings function 

with the first argument being the string abc, 

and the second argument, the string def. 

I would then expect the function to 

return abcdef, when I call it. 

To write this as an expectation 

in some testing frameworks such as JEST, 

I can use the function that has the name expect. 

I then pass the call to 

the concatStrings function with the specific arguments. 

Then I add that to the function, 

which is another testing function, 

and I pass it the value of what I'm 

expecting this code to produce. 

I'm essentially stating that I expect 

the calling concatStrings with abc and def, 

will return the value abcdef. 

Testing in JavaScript lets me verify 

that the function is behaving in the way I intended. 

Testing code in this way ensures three things. 

Conciseness as it's straightforward and to the point, 

since there are only two function calls to 

explain what is the expected result. 

Clarity, because you know 

exactly what arguments you're providing, 

and repeatability, as you can run it 

again and again with the same arguments each time. 

Now, I could run 

multiple function calls using this syntax. 

For example, I could have expected concatStrings 

123 and 456 as arguments, 

and then the function to be with the argument 123456, 

and in each instance, 

the expectations will be correct, 

and the code will behave as expected. 

In testing terminology, you would 

say that your tests are passing. 

But I'm only halfway there because it's still 

possible from my code to fail an expectation. 

For example, if I run the expect method and pass it 

an invocation of the concatStrings function 

with numbers 1 and 2 as arguments, 

my expectation of 12 being the results will fail. 

This is because when I use 

the plus operator with two values of the number type, 

it performs the mathematical operation of addition, 

instead of joining the two numbers 

together to form the number 12, 

like it would form abcdef. 

If I gave it the arguments of abc and def. 

When tests fail, you say that they are red, 

and when they pass, you say that they are green. 

If a test fails, 

then it's a sign that I need to write the code 

in such a way that it passes its test. 

Once my test passes, 

I need to improve both the app's code and the test code, 

but without changing the behavior of either. 

This is known as refactoring. 

Refactoring is the process in which I 

write my feature code so that it runs more 

efficiently or that it's easier to read and thus 

easier to understand for other programmers on the team. 

This is done without affecting 

the results that the code produces. 

The only obvious change should be perhaps the test itself 

taking less time to run 

because I've optimized my source code. 

You want to always write your code in 

a way that meets all expectations. 

It's most likely that some of your tests 

will be red and some of them will be green. 

Red tests are a guide as to how you need to 

improve your code to cater for unmet expectations. 

As you continue to refine 

your code in response to red tests, 

it becomes a cyclical activity. 

This is often described as the red-green-refactor cycle. 

This cycle is the basis of 

the test-driven development or 

TDD approach to programming. 

Let me explain the TDD approach. 

First, you write a failing test, 

then you write your source code so 

that the previously failing test now passes. 

Finally, you optimize 

your source code without changing its results. 

There are many advantages of having 

code that tests other code. 

For example, you can run it as many times as you want. 

You can run the testing code automatically. 

The tests can be repeated without 

significant cost in time or effort. 

To sum up, testing is how you verify 

the expectations you have 

regarding the behavior of your code.